Late-July Reading Wrap-up

I felt like I hadn’t read much fantasy lately, so started the month with “Six Crimson Cranes”. Asian-inspired fantasy that was easy to read, but felt way too forced at times. I liked it but won’t pick up the sequel.

“To Shape a Dragon’s Breath”, Moniquill Blackgoose, really knocked it out of the park. Set in an 1800s steampunk world where dragons play a role in the conquest of what we call America. When an young indigenous woman bonds with the first dragon for her tribe in like 200 years, she ends up in a dragon academy. Wonderful critique of colonialism, and looking forward to sequels when they are published.

Prepping for vacation, read “Crow” by Amy Spurway. Set in Cape Breton, it follows a woman with a terminal illness returning home and coming to terms with what that means. Recommend as an audiobook for the accent.

One of the best reads this month was “Milkman”, Anna Burns. I went in blind, picking it up because it won several awards. The narrator is 18 in late 1970s Northern Ireland. It really breaks down the psychological effects of living in a society at war, where the nationalists are also the morality police. I can see why some people might not like it, with its literary style, but highly recommended. Ticked a lot of boxes: first Northern Ireland book, Booker Prize count now 9.

I’d been recommended “The Royal Game”, Stefan Zweig, years ago. It hit my radar again recently, and it’s a novella worth picking up. You can read it in a couple hours. Besides the complexity of chess, it also touches on Nazis in Austria.

“The Road” by Cormac McCarthy is my second book by the author. I’ve never seen the movie. The book is readable, but it didn’t strike me as a particularly special addition to the post-apocalyptic genre. It won the Pulitzer, which brings my count to 22.

“Comrade: An Essay on Political Belonging”, Jodi Dean, is a mildly academic look at what it means to be a comrade. It starts with a good take-down of “ally”, and include a lot of C.P. history. Glad I read it, and I’ve passed it along to friends I think will like it.

I picked up a new Japanese book, the first volume of ゲゲゲの鬼太郎, which covers 1960s and early 70s comics. I DNFed it after about 150 pages because it just wasn’t interesting. It seems like one of those things which are nostalgic for people who grew up with it, but doesn’t have universal appeal.

I read four nonfiction graphic novels. Except for “Ducks”, these were all free from the library.

“Ducks: Two Years in the Oil Sands”, Kate Beaton (of “Hark! A Vagrant”), was five stars. I picked it up because she’s from Cape Breton. This memoir covers the two years she worked in the Alberta tar sands in order to pay off student loans.

I learned a lot about north and east Syria from “Their Blood Got Mixed”. I’m sure it’s glossing over some negative stuff, but looks like better democracy than anything I’ve seen.

“Crossroads: I Live Where I Like” is a illustrated history of the neighborhood in Cape Town from the late 70s through the 90s. Dense read, but lays out how the ruling powers and regressive headmen kept democratic efforts from flourishing.

Wrapping up nonfiction, also read “A Full Life: James Connolly the Irish Rebel”, a brief background comic on an important figure in Irish independence.

For fiction graphic novels, keeping up with latest “The Savage Sword of Conan”, #3. Just what you expect, and exactly what I signed up for. I was seriously disappointed in “Critical Role: The Tales of Exandria”. I picked it up because Critical Role seems to be semi-famous, but it just didn’t interest me.
