Early-September Reading Wrap-up

The best fiction I’ve read so far this month was “The Witch’s Heart”, Genevieve Gornichec. This is a retelling of some core Norse myths from the perspective of Angrboða, a wife of Loki and mother to Hel, Fenrir, and Jörmungandr. If you are familiar with the mythology, this is a must read. Much of the joy in reading it is in how little the myths are changed, while the perspective is completely turned on its head.

“The Book of Elsewhere” by Keanu Reeves and China Miéville was OK. I’d never read the “BRSRKR” comics, and if I had I probably would not have picked this up. It does have some interesting twists on the idea of immortals roaming the earth, and it reminds me I need to read more of Miéville’s work.

“Toward Eternity”, Anton Hur, is good sci-fi, extrapolating on the idea of replacing human cells with nanites to cure disease. Definitely worth checking out if you like sci-fi, digging into what it means to be human. Anton Hur is known for translating Korean literature, so technically the third book I’ve ready from him.

“The Employees”, by Danish author Olga Ravn, is a novella structured as a series of reports made by humans and androids working around a remote planet. This is a more difficult literary read, but interesting in how it skewers work and capitalism.

I think I read “Stoner”, John Williams, because of high praise by a couple reviewers. It follows the life of William Stoner, born in the late 1890s, and ending up a professor of English Literature in Missouri. There are a couple scenes that are downright uncomfortable to read, particularly with his mental wife and petty coworker. I didn’t hate the book, but definitely not my thing.

The best nonfiction so far this month was “The Rent Collectors: Exploitation, Murder, and Redemption in Immigrant LA”, Jesse Katz. Highly recommended to L.A. residents, about a gang exploiting MacArthur Park, pivoting around the murder of an infant in 2007. A clear demonstration of the consequences of L.A. policy toward street vendors.

“Caste: The Origins of Our Discontents”, Isabel Wilkerson, is a good primer on American racism. It uses the rubric of caste to distinguish systemic racism from everyday prejudice. It could be helpful to read if you still don’t understand how the super-racist candidate could win the upcoming election.

I listen to Thersa Matsuura’s podcast, “Uncanny Japan”, so a lot of “The Book of Japanese Folklore” was already familiar to me. It would be a good intro to anyone with only a passing knowledge of yōkai and such, but who would like to learn more.

I read seventeen graphic novels so far this month. I’m on a tear!

“The Awl”, volume 1 by Choi Gyu-seok, is a fictional look at a union organizing effort at a grocery store in South Korea. This first book was excellent, and I’m looking forward to the release of volumes 2 and 3 in English later this year.

I plowed through the remaining volumes of “Witch Hat Atelier” (5–12) once they came in from the library. My son is reading them as well. Beautiful art, intriguing magic system, and a building mystery around the different approaches to magic in the world. Looking forward to the anime, but now I have to wait until January for the next volume.

I read two more volumes of “Lone Wolf and Cub” (12 & 13). I’m almost half-way through the 28 volumes. It’s a masterclass in how to build tension with images on the written page.

I finished off “Bitter Root”, volume 3. Good ending to the series.

Then everything else was sword and sorcery. “The Savage Sword of Conan” #4 was good, building up a larger story line to come.

I finished off the Groo material available from the library. “Groo Meets Tarzan” was a dud, and “Groo: Play of the Gods” was only marginally better. Even for Groo fans, I would not touch the former, and you only would want to read “Gods” because it sets up a later storyline (which I consider mediocre as well).

The “Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser Omnibus” gave me an overview of Fritz Leiber’s two iconic characters. The first half, written Howard Chaykin and art by Mike Mignola, was better than the latter half, but it still convinced me that I don’t need to read any more Fafhrd and Gray Mouser stories. There wasn’t anything endearing to me about the characters.

This month’s biggest dud was “Kalevala”, Sami Makkonen. A graphic run-through of Finnish folk stories that was beautiful to look at, but hard to follow. The story is choppy and not compelling in the least. But I can mark off Finland on my countries read, now at 85.
