Mid-July Reading Wrap-up

I picked up “Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead” by Olga Tokarczuk because she won the Nobel. I would not have chosen a story where the main character is hardcore into astrology. But this tale set in southwest Poland along the Czech border is a slow-burn mystery that has real payoff. I’d recommend the book even to folks not into literary fiction. Nobel count now 31.

“Avenues by Train”, Farai Mudzingwa, allows me to check off Zimbabwe from my list of countries read (now 82). I didn’t find myself drawn to the characters, and I often got lost when chapters would jump back and forth in time.

“The Weight of Our Sky”, Hanna Alkaf, is a page-turner set in the 1969 race riots in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The narrator is a 16-year-old girl with OCD, but in a time and country which would not diagnose that. The story is intense. The trigger warnings are real, as it depicts real events where hundred were murdered. A 5-star book, one of two I read so far this month.

The other 5-star read was “Black Cake” by Charmaine Wilkerson. It’s a historical fiction/mystery, jumping between now and the early years of the recently passed mother of Byron and Benny. It travels from the Caribbean, to the U.K., to southern California. Some people would definitely cry reading this.

I gave Stephen Graham Jones another try with “Night of the Mannequins”. The book is seriously crazy, and I appreciate his style. But I think he’s not for me. He has a werewolf story I want to read, though; I’m a sucker for werewolves.

I finished my first Japanese book of the year, “人新世の「資本論」” [“Capital” in the Anthropocene] by 斎藤 幸平. This is the longest (365 pages) and most difficult book I’ve read in Japanese, taking me seven months (with intermittent breaks). While not perfect, this book lays out all the different ways capitalists have been trying to address the climate crisis and clearly demonstrates that capitalism cannot solve the problem. He calls his proposal “degrowth communism”, a combination of ground-up democratic control with breaking the capitalist obsession with economic “growth” to instead look at producing what people need while shifting away from harm. Let’s do it! My next non-English book won’t be so difficult.

Other nonfiction this month. “Lynching and Mob Violence in Ohio, 1772-1938” is a little dry, but exhaustive walk-through of Ohio history. It includes a number of incidents where local gentry had no interest in the rule of law, so would gather mobs. And you can map the racial tensions; Springfield sounds like it was a complete shithole in the late 1800s. “American Uprising: The Untold Story of America’s Largest Slave Revolt” is a history of the 1811 slave uprising around New Orleans. A short read I definitely recommend.

“Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge and the Teachings of Plants” by Robin Wall Kimmerer felt like it was the other side of the spectrum from “‘Capital’ in the Anthropocene”. I say spectrum, because the focus of this book is much more on the personal, whereas “‘Capital’” is focused on the systemic. It delves into botanical and ecological subjects in an engaging way, while advocating for thankfulness and reciprocity. The analogy of capitalism as a wendigo which must be defeated is apt. Definitely recommended.

I read seven graphic novels through ComicsPlus. Many of these were from PM Press, including three nonfiction. “The Cargo Rebellion” is a jumble of academic articles and a graphic narrative of an 1852 Chinese mutiny against the American ship when rumor spread they were heading to deadly guano isles. One article explores how the British used the “coolie” system to supplant slavery, an economic edge given their access to India and China. “The Day the Klan Came to Town” needed to be longer to narrate the 1923 battle against the Klan in Carnegie, PA, but it always feels good to read about folks fighting back against racists. I enjoyed “The Hard Switch” by Owen D. Pomery, a sci-fi story where the source of interstellar travel is about to run out. I haven’t seen this idea explored elsewhere, and it’ll be interesting to see where this story leads (not sure when volume 2 will come out).
