Late-September Reading Wrap-up

Two astounding reads in the latter part of September.

First, I read “The Trees” by Percival Everett. I enjoyed his latest, “James”, and wanted to read more. It’s really hard to describe this novel, which is laugh-out-loud funny at times, while also dealing with the history of lynching in America. It starts with the discovery of two bodies in Mississippi, a white man and a black man looking a lot like Emmett Till. I’ll be reading more Everett.

The second five-star read is “The Spirit Bares Its Teeth”, Andrew Joseph White. As Halloween approaches, I’ve been trying to pull in more horror, and this gothic horror set in an alternative 1880s England was intense. The protagonist is an autistic, transgender man looking to become an official medium, a job restricted to males in Victorian England. In the 1820s, people with purple eyes developed the ability to interact with the dead. The author has two other books that I definitely want to check out.

Despite its title, “Night of the Living Rez” by Morgan Talty is not a horror novel. Structured as a series of connected short stories, it chronicles addiction and family among the Penobscot tribe in Maine. It is not light reading, but definitely worth it.

Daphne du Maurier was on my list of authors to check out, and a book club selection for October is “Rebecca”. I probably would not have read it if I’d read a summary, as it deals with 1930s upper-class English—not a set of protagonists I tend to want to read about. The writing style was quite good, such that when I got to the half-way point and thought of dropping it, I was willing to continue on. And then about two-thirds through the book, you suddenly realize why Alfred Hitchcock did a movie based on the book. I did like it overall, and could see myself selectively recommending it to others, though I don’t think I’ll read any more of du Maurier’s work.

I want to read more Philip K. Dick, so picked up “The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch”. Sifting through the sexist stupidities (par for the course in 1965?), the novel has some interesting ideas, with drastic global warming thrown in as background. It’s a head trip, trying to figure out reality as a new drug enters the solar system in high demand for the miserable living conditions faced in the non-Earth colonies. Worth reading for Dick fans.

I finally got around to “Neuromancer”, William Gibson. The book credited with creating the cyberpunk genre, the connections to “The Matrix” movie are direct. In the end, it is an mystery/thriller story set in a dystopian future where humans have embraced cyborg tech and neural links. The overlap with “Palmer Eldritch” was in itself interesting, too. But I wouldn’t recommend this to anyone who isn’t a hard-core sci-fi completionist; if you played Shadowrun, you’ve already read this.

“Darker Than You Think”, Jack Williamson (1940), is a mashing together of horror, fantasy, and sci-fi. I picked it up because it was tagged as a werewolf story ... which is partially true, but then goes in a pretty wild direction. I had fun, but not something I’d recommend.

“Stories Are Weapons: Psychological Warfare and the American Mind”, Annalee Newitz, was my only nonfiction this time. A history of PsyOps, with a bit of a nod to science fiction because the man who literally wrote the book on PsyOps for the military (Paul Linebarger) also wrote science fiction stories (under Cordwainer Smith). It also looks at the way news and information is used as propaganda to manipulate people today, acknowledging that it is a weapon of war and thus in need of deescalation. I found the proposals for change weak, but otherwise recommend.

On the graphic novel front, at the comic book shop I stumbled upon “Dying Inside”, Pete Wentz (of Fall Out Boy). I rather liked this story of a 16-year-old girl who fails to commit suicide when the knife she uses seems to have cursed her with invulnerability. Witches, depression, musical references; I enjoyed.

I finished another three volumes of “Lone Wolf and Cub”, 14–16. It’s as good as I expect, and a great fall-back when I don’t have an active graphic novel to read.

I had been following “Saga” by Brian K. Vaughan in trade paperback, but lost track back in 2017. I re-read volume 7, then finished off 8, 9, and 10, available through the library. Lots of funny lines and reflections back upon contemporary society. I’m still nervous about how the series will wrap up, since volume 10 was starting to flag a little and I was disappointed with how Vaughan finished off “Y: The Last Man”.
