24 November Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“Worlds of Exile and Illusion: Rocannon’s World, Planet of Exile, City of Illusions”, Ursula K. Le Guin, is the first three novels in the Hainish Cycle collected into a single volume. They do connect loosely, and I felt that they got better with each story. “Rocannon’s World” is her first mention of the ansible, for sci-fi buffs.

I finished off the Thousand Worlds books with “Fox Snare”, Yoon Ha Lee. I liked this better than the second book, and they are all worth reading for that Korean mythology meets sci-fi itch you didn’t know you had. I’m not sure if he intends to write more in the series, but I’d read it if he does.

I got 40% into “The Story of the Forest”, Linda Grant, before DNF’ing it. I’m not sure where I picked up this recommendation (I probably should start tracking that), maybe because it starts in Riga, Latvia? It’s a multi-generational story following a Jewish family (brother and sister) who are in the U.K. by the third chapter. It doesn’t have a compelling narrative, and felt more like an enumeration of details you might get from someone retelling their own family history without much literary skill. I just didn’t care about the characters enough to keep reading.

“She Who Knows”, Nnedi Okorafor, is something of a prequel to “Who Fears Death”, which I read in 2017. The two stories are not strongly connected (a generation apart), so you could read them in any order. Lovely world building in a near future dystopia with fantasy elements. This is my fourth book by Okorafor, and it reminds me that I’ve read the first book of two of her other series and have not returned to them to finish them off. I have the “Binti” trilogy on my shelf, so should set a goal to read more of her in 2025.

“Winter in the Blood”, James Welch (Blackfoot), is a slice-of-life story covering a few weeks in the life of the narrator, a 32-year-old resident of the Fort Belknap Reservation in Montana. It is set near the time of writing (1974), with some flashbacks to his youth. We see his relationships and struggles. And I just learned they made a movie ten years ago, so I’ll add that to my list.

“It Lasts Forever and Then It’s Over”, Anne de Marcken, caught my attention when it won the Le Guin Prize. I have to say this is my first literary zombie book. (“Pride and Prejudice and Zombies” is literary with zombies added.) It’s a poetic read, and you never see where it is going. Recommended if you want something though-provoking, quirky and short.

-- Nonfiction --

I read “The Rediscovery of America: Native Peoples and the Unmaking of U.S. History”, Ned Blackhawk (Western Shoshone), which won the National Book Award last year. It is quite informative, but tends to the dry and academic end in the writing. If you haven’t read on this subject before, it’s a detailed survey of U.S. history from the early days of colonialism up through the 20th century. I’d recommend “An Indigenous Peoples’ History of the United States” over this text, though, for readability.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

Continuing on with “Chainsaw Man, Vol. 4: The Gun Is Mightier”, Tatsuki Fujimoto. It’s fun and stupid, and I’m just waiting for more volumes to come from the library.
