June Reading Wrap-up

I read a lot of shorter works this month. If you exclude the two long books, my average book this month was 100 pages less than from previous months this year.

I just learned it was Caribbean-American Heritage Month, so it was an excuse to move “The Black God’s Drums” up the queue. A steampunk tale set in New Orleans; I could read more of P. Djèlí Clark’s work. Not American, but “The Lonely Londoners” was already on the top of my stack. Set in 1950s London and centered on Caribbean emigrants, it was a tough read because of the dialect. Wish it was available on audio.

I read a couple LGBT books per month anyways, so Pride didn’t affect my queue. I read the classic “Carmilla”, a sapphic vampire tale written 25 years before “Dracula”. “Rain” is a fun graphic novel adaptation of a Joe Hill horror piece. And there’s always room for more Baldwin; “The Fire Next Time” was the best book I read this month.

I picked up Nobel author Herta Müller’s “The Fox Was Ever the Hunter”. It was my first Romanian book. Sadly, also one of the worst books I read this month. The cinematic style didn’t work for me, but it did give a ground-level view of the waning days of Ceaușescu’s reign. My Nobel read count is now 30.

“The Man with the Compound Eyes”, Wu Ming-Yi, was my first Taiwanese book and recommended for anyone who likes an ecological bent to their fiction. A part of the Pacific gyre breaks off and hits the coast of Taiwan. A different environmental message comes from “Birnam Wood”, set in New Zealand and pitting a guerrilla gardening group against a U.S. tech billionaire. A thriller that references Shakespeare in more than just name.

I read Thomas Sankara, so can check off Burkina Faso from my list of countries read, but I don’t recommend it. And, does “Who Goes There?” count for Antarctica? It’s the classic “The Thing” is based on. I’ve now read books from 81 countries.

With upcoming vacation in mind, I picked up “Cod” by Mark Kurlansky. It’s pretty depressing that the book was written 25 years ago, and I’ve no indication that the state of the oceans has improved. It’ll be interesting to see how things have changed in Newfoundland.

I’d been meaning to read Vernor Vinge, so when I saw news of his passing, I put the Hugo-winning “A Fire Upon the Deep” on hold. Finally came in and ended up being the longest (non-graphic novel) read this month. It’s quite a ride, on the space opera end of sci-fi and surprisingly engaging. That brings my Hugo count to 51.

Additional sci-fi this month included the classic “The War of the Worlds”. Only recommended for hardcore fans. A better classic is “Roadside Picnic”, and now I have to watch Tarkovsky’s “Stalker” when I get a chance. “Severance” is the 2018 pandemic novel everyone was freaked out to read after 2020; read it if it’s not “too soon”. I picked up Bora Chung’s latest translated work, “Your Utopia”, another short story collection that blends sci-fi and horror. I remember really liking Robert Silverberg back in school, so hope to read more of his stuff going forward. “Downward to the Earth” blends a critique of colonialism into your sci-fi. The best sci-fi I read this month, though, was “The Lathe of Heaven”. Always a goal to read more Ursula K. Le Guin. It is about a man whose dreams can change reality.

“Avatar, the Last Airbender: The Legacy of Yangchen” was the only fantasy book this month. It’s the sequel to “The Dawn of Yangchen”, which I read when it came out. I liked the first book better, but this one is still worth the read for fans. Note to self: read more fantasy next month.

Rounding out with nonfiction this month, my son and I listened to “Stamped: Racism, Antiracism, and You”, by Jason Reynolds from Ibram X. Kendi’s prior work. It was a bit challenging for him to understand, but good overview, especially if you don’t have time for the full version of “Stamped from the Beginning”. I reread Marx’s “Critique of the Gotha Program”; maybe 30 years since I first read it? The last quarter includes a lot of famous quotations and material when you think of Marx, and “人新世の「資本論」” references it a lot (I’m hoping to finish that in July). If you want some great feminist poetry, definitely pick up “the witch doesn’t burn in this one”.

I read a LOT of graphic novels this month. I’m rereading through “Lone Wolf and Cub” and cleared volumes 5–11. Such a classic, including a lot of historical information in with fantastical sword fighting. “The Complete American Gods” is a beast at 712 pages. It’s probably more than 20 years since I read the novel. “Khiêm” is a memoir across three generations of Vietnamese–Canadian immigrants. “A Fox in My Brain” is a highly recommended memoir if you know anyone with bipolar or cyclothymia disorders, or just want to understand what living with the disorder is like.
