Early-November Reading Wrap-up

I started off Native American Heritage Month with “The Birchbark House”, Louise Erdrich (Anishinaabe). A book about a year in the life of a 7-year-old Ojibwe girl, set in 1847 near what is now called Lake Superior. It follows the seasons, going into details about what it takes to keep alive in a community under pressure by invading forces. It’s written for a younger audience, but still a good read for adults. This was my third book by Erdrich, who I plan to read more of.

“Hunting by Stars”, Cherie Dimaline (Georgian Bay Métis), is the sequel to “The Marrow Thieves”, which I read shortly after it came out in 2017. The premise is a near future where people have contracted a disease the prevents them from dreaming. But, indigenous people can still dream, so Canada has started rounding them up to use them as a “cure”. It’s an intense story, and I recommend both books. I have more Dimaline books in my TBR.

“Tiger Honor”, Yoon Ha Lee, is the second book after “Dragon Pearl”. This switches perspective to a tiger whose uncle is the antagonist from the first book. I didn’t like Sebin as much as Min, but still enjoyed the story and have already started the third book in the series.

“The Shadowed Sun”, N. K. Jemisin, finishes the Dreamblood series. With a lot of the world-building out of the way from the first book, this one hits the ground running. I liked it better than the first. Would recommend for Jemisin fans or anyone interested in an ancient-Egyptian influenced fantasy world.

“Service Model”, Adrian Tchaikovsky, came out earlier this year. The protagonist is a valet robot who may or may not be self aware after having killed his master. It reads similar to “James” in that it jumps from one absurd adventure to the next, all while revealing a world where robots outnumber humans. It’s a fun read, though I think I liked “Elder Race” better. I’ll be reading more Tchaikovsky.

I recommend the excellent graphic novel biography, “B. Traven: Portrait of a Famous Unknown” by Golo. It’s translated from French. Perhaps most famous now for “Treasure of the Sierra Madre”, B. Traven is an author I want to read more of, so was happy to read about his background, which explains a lot about why his writing is good. This was my only nonfiction this time.

“Ripple Effects”, Jordan Hart, is a cool superhero graphic novel where the person has invulnerability and type 1 diabetes. It’s a good story and definitely accessible for younger readers. (The edition I read had a learning guide in the back.) There are essays at the end of each of the five chapters by artists who live with invisible illnesses.

I finished up the rest of “よつばと!” [Yotsuba&!], Kiyohiko Azuma. Volumes 11–13 I read in Japanese, and 14 & 15 I read in English. It’s a charming slice-of-life manga about a 5-year-old girl. There’s a scene in volume 15 that could cause you to tear up. The series isn’t officially over, but the gaps between 13, 14, and 15 suggest it could be a while before I see another one.

With “Chainsaw Man, Vol. 3: Kill Denji”, Tatsuki Fujimoto, the characters and story are starting to come together. It’s still all material I remember from season one of the anime, but I plan to continue on. Unfortunately, it takes a while for the books to come in through the library.

“The Savage Sword of Conan #5”, Jason Aaron, Michael Kogge. More Conan, starting a new story line separate from the Black Stone material from the previous volume.

The graphic novel dud this time was “Bungo Stray Dogs”, Vol. 1, Kafka Asagiri. When I read the summary, it sounded kinda interesting, but the execution isn’t there. Despite some structural similarities with “Chainsaw Man”, the main character is too absurd and the companion characters are irritating. The art’s a bit meh as well. I won’t be continuing.
