Late-August Reading Wrap-up

“Under the Mesquite”, Guadalupe Garcia McCall, is a free-verse novel that reads like a poetic memoir. It’s only inspired by the author’s experience, not nonfiction. A little slow at the start, but a powerful and sad read.

“Elder Race” is my second Adrian Tchaikovsky novella. It’s a lot of fun, with one character narrating fantasy, and the second character narrating sci-fi, as their tales weave back and forth. I want to read more by the author.

“Unexpected Stories” is two shorter stories by Octavia E. Butler. Excellent, as I expect from a master of the genre. Now I only have her series to finish up her oeuvre.

I reread “This Is How You Lose the Time War”, Amal El-Mohtar and Max Gladstone, for a book club. I enjoyed it more on the second pass, though it was clear at the discussion that this is a “cilantro” book that at least a third of the people there actually disliked.

I forgot how I heard about “Lanny”, Max Porter. It’s a literary, light horror tale that involves a child who goes missing. It was interesting, but not something I’d recommend to most.

Picked up the classic “The Day of the Triffids”, John Wyndham (1951). I liked it much better than “War of the Worlds”, which has a similar feel. The tale has aged pretty well, and I appreciated how it depicted a number of different factions in a post-apocalyptic setting.

For classic sci-fi that has NOT aged well, I read two short story collections of Harlan Ellison. “I Have No Mouth & I Must Scream” and “Paingod and Other Delusions” each have seven stories, and many of them contain misogyny, the worst being a female character who questions why her rapist is killed. Many of the less offensive stories just felt juvenile. I may still read “A Boy and His Dog” some day, but will otherwise steer clear of the author.

After hearing a review of “Witch Hat Atelier”, I decided to start working through the manga. I read four volumes this month. I like the tale and world building, and the artwork is beautiful.

I read volume 1 back in June, and read “Bitter Root, Vol. 2: Rage & Redemption” this month. I’m enjoying it and plan to order volume 3 to finish off the series. Recommended if you like Harlem renaissance historical fiction mixed with cosmic horror.

I discovered that several Groo TPBs are up on Comics Plus, and I’ve read four of them so far. “Groo: In the Wild” was the best, bringing Sergio and Mark’s humor to bear on environmental destruction. “Groo: The Most Intelligent Man in the World” was pretty top notch as well, critiquing greed. “The Groo Inferno” and “Groo and Rufferto” are fun, but better for more die-hard fans.
