8 December Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“One Hundred Shadows”, Hwang Jungeun, is a shorter work which was endorsed by Han Kang, and she provided a preface to this work. It’s a bit confusing at first, but I was pulled in by the story of small shopkeepers getting pushed out of their businesses in order for their buildings to be torn down and rebuilt. Great statement in there: what some people call “slums”, others call homes and livelihoods.

“Betty”, Tiffany McDaniel, is a coming of age story of a girl born in 1954 to a Cherokee father and white mother. The character is heavily based on the author’s mother, and involves some very heavy topics. The book is highly rated, and it hit my radar because the author grew up in Circleville, OH, about 30 minutes away from where I grew up. These scenes of Betty’s father definitely had me thinking about my own father, who like Betty was visibly native. I never heard from him about discrimination that he faced, but like Betty’s family, did move around a lot when he was younger to only settle down in one place later. Highly recommended.

“The Woman in the Dunes”, Kōbō Abe, is a Kafkaesque story of a man who gets trapped in a pit by villagers, forced to dig out sand just to get water and sustenance. We know at the beginning that he does not escape and is reported deceased after seven years. The story starts then in 1955, with the premise that his declaration as permanently missing is made at the time of publication (1962). I’m pretty sure I read this in the ’90s and saw the movie at that time. It’s on Criterion, so maybe I’ll watch it again soon.

-- Nonfiction --

“Happening” is Annie Ernaux’s memoir of her abortion experience in 1963–64, when it was still illegal in France. Ernaux’s Nobel Prize in Literature is well deserved, and I’m glad to have picked up another of her works. The honest portrayal of her thoughts and experiences at the time (this was published over 35 years after the events) are refreshing to read compared to other narratives I’ve read. The class divides and reactions of doctors are worth the read alone.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“The Complete Gail Simone Red Sonja” collects two story lines from Simone’s reimagining of Red Sonja (issues 0–18). I’ve never read Red Sonja, since the cover art always suggests a salacious tone I don’t seek in my comics. But, I did see the movie in the 1980s and have read some of Simone’s other comic work, so figured I’d check this out. It was a lot of fun and worth a read for fans of sword and sorcery. I doubt I’ll pick up ongoing issues; this collection is from 2013–2015.

“Wolf Children Ame & Yuki”, Mamoru Hosoda, is the manga adaptation of the movie, that is, the movie came first. “Wolf Children” is one of the greatest anime ever, highly recommended to all, but particularly if you are a parent. This is a very straight adaptation of the movie, so you are better off watching the movie, as this adds nothing to the tale.

“Rascal Does Not Dream of Logical Witch”, Hajime Kamoshida, is the third arc in the “Rascal Does Not Dream” stories. I picked this up thinking it might move beyond the anime I’ve already watched, but it wasn’t new material for me. I would recommend the anime over the manga, honestly.

“Goodnight Paradise”, Joshua Dysart, is a mystery story set in Venice, California, circa Memorial Day 2016 or 2017. Most of the main characters are homeless, and they are treated with empathy. The story includes digs at Snapchat and the gentrification of Venice, including a reference to Oakwood. Recommended for folks in L.A. It’s not 100% realistic ... the main character has visions that reveal part of the mystery ... but I still enjoyed.

Read four volumes of “Chainsaw Man”, Vols. 6–9, Tatsuki Fujimoto. Pretty dramatic story shifts, with the earlier goals changing to new enemies. There are 19 published volumes now, so nearly halfway through what’s available, though given how extreme some of the situations were in these volumes, curious how things are going to change yet again.
