Late-October Reading Wrap-up

The best, but also the most devastating, read this time was “The Republic of False Truths”, Alaa Al Aswany. It starts shortly before the events of Tahrir Square in 2011, and then most of the book takes place afterward. If you want a realistic examination of the regime and how counter-revolution unfolds, this is a must read. The book pulls no punches, and you should be aware that things in Egypt are worse now than before 2011, so it is depressing. An in-depth (fictional) companion to “If We Burn”, Vincent Bevins, (nonfiction) which I read last year. You cannot simply remove a figurehead and expect revolution to succeed.

“Somewhere Beyond the Sea”, T.J. Klune, is the sequel to “The House in the Cerulean Sea”, which just came out in September. This one has a more direct confrontation with the forces of retrograde good-for-nothings who seek to use government to further their agenda of hatred. A must-read for fans of “Cerulean Sea”.

Ursula K. Le Guin’s novella “The Word for World Is Forest” is part of the Hainish cycle. It digs into colonialism and slavery, transposed to a planet where the intelligent species evolved in a forest. Great Le Guin story, more straight sci-fi than some of her more dense material, and highly recommended.

“Dragon Pearl”, Yoon Ha Lee, and its sequel have been sitting on the shelf for a while, then my son saw the third volume in the book store, so time to finally read the series. A great mix of Korean mythology and sci-fi adventure, with a protagonist who is thirteen and can shapechange, searching for her older brother. I’ve already started book two and ordered book three.

In my effort to read most of N. K. Jemisin’s work, I read “The Killing Moon”, the 2012 book which is part of a duology. It is quite slow to start, or at least I didn’t find myself interested in the characters and story until a good quarter into it. But once it got going, I liked the world she has built. I’ll read the second book once it comes from the library. It’s not her best work, but it has some interesting concepts.

I’ve liked all the Walter Mosley I’ve read, and I saw he had a new novella, “Touched”, when I was at the bookstore. This is sci-fi (most of his oeuvre is mystery), with an interesting concept. But it feels like the beginning of something larger. At least it reminds me I should pick his books back up again.

After realizing I hadn’t read any nonfiction of late, I picked up “A Little Devil in America: Notes in Praise of Black Performance”, Hanif Abdurraqib. He’s a poet and essayist from Columbus, Ohio that I’ve been meaning to check out for a while. These essays explore some interesting history, tying it into today. I’d definitely recommend to anyone interested in the topics, like dancing, Josephine Baker, Wu-tang Clan, Whitney Houston, and other black performers that aren’t as well-known in the mainstream. I’ll be picking up more of his stuff.

The stand-out nonfiction this month was “Bottle of Lies: The Inside Story of the Generic Drug Boom”, Katherine Eban. I came across this because of Eban’s excellent article about how the U.S. is currently botching H5N1 in cattle herds. This article will have you checking your medications. Spoiler alert, there’s no happy ending here. The problem is capitalism (my conclusion, not hers).

“Honduras: The Making of a Banana Republic”, Alison Acker, is a history of Honduras written in 1988. It’s an overview of over 400 years of history, with most of the emphasis on the 20th century. Many interesting details, though the writing is a bit dry. I’d got a used copy years ago. My first book on Honduras, bringing my countries read count up to 87.

I plowed through the final volumes (21–28) of “Lone Wolf and Cub”, Kazuo Koike. Much of these later volumes are fights with few words, so it’s nearly all in the visual storytelling, of which Koike was a master. The suspension of disbelief strains at times, but it is still a “satisfying” ending.

I watched season one of “Chainsaw Man” in Japan last year. I put some holds in at the library, but so far have only gotten “Vol. 1: Dog and Chainsaw” and “Vol. 2: Chainsaw vs. Bat”. It’s quirky and stupid but still fun, and I hope to work through what’s available (in English) as the library holds come in.

“Yotsuba&!” is a wonderful slice-of-life tale of a 5-year-old girl that is laugh-out-loud funny. I read volumes 1, 9, and 10 in Japanese over four years ago, but could not find 2–8. The library has them all on-demand in English now. I finished 1–10 this month. I’m switching to Japanese for 11–13 (which we own), then back to English for 14 and 15.

“When to Pick a Pomegranate”, Yasmeen Abedifard, is on the meditative, artistic side. I liked it, but couldn’t see my self recommending it to anyone.

My last graphic novel of the month was the nonfiction “Black Coal and Red Bandanas: An Illustrated History of the West Virginia Mine Wars”, Raymond Tyler. A good overview of the West Virginia mine wars, though a little drier than I expect from a graphic novel.
