May Reading Wrap-up
For AAPI month, I ended up finishing eight books. I found a book from Guam, "Juanit". I read my second book (first in English) from Sayaka Murata, "Earthlings", and it was a trip—a scathing critique of modern/Japanese society and expectations. "The Stone Home" is a newly released, fictional account of the slave labor carried out in orphanages in South Korea. "The Swimmers" was a heartbreaking story about dementia. And, on the 44th anniversary of the Gwangju Uprising, I read "Called by Another Name", the memoir of a Peace Corps Volunteer who was there.
With the passing of Alice Munro, I picked up "Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage". I enjoyed the short story collection and can understand why she won both the Nobel and International Booker. And that brings me up to 29 Nobel-winning authors I've read.
Unintentionally, I read three books on loss in a row, with "The Swimmers", "Hateship", and then finishing the month with "And Every Morning the Way Home Gets Longer and Longer". Though I liked Otsuka's book the best, "Every Morning" was a beautiful exploration of the subject as well. Is it a sign to make sure I have an advanced directive?
I was able to pick up "Night Watch" after it won the Pulitzer. It's an interesting book, but honestly one of the worst I read this month (3.5 out of 5 stars).
There's a LOT of hype around Percival Everett's new book, "James", and all it is deserved. You don't have to read "Huckleberry Finn" beforehand, but it helps to have read it at some point to appreciate the episodic, absurdist adventures from Huck's story.
We're planning a trip to Nova Scotia this summer, so I picked up "The Berry Pickers". What an excellent book about a Mi'kmaq family.
Kathleen Hanna's memoir, "Rebel Girl", just came out. It should be considered essential reading for any fan. She narrates the audiobook herself!
I read four sci-fi/fantasy. I liked but didn't love The second murderbot novella, "Artificial Condition". I could read more of the series, but it isn't a priority. "Black Sun" is a book club (Village Well) selection for June. I enjoyed it and look forward to the discussion in a few weeks. And I need to read more Le Guin, so I picked up "The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas". It's a quick and excellent read. (But avoid the ebook from Hoopla, the formatting is garbage.)
I didn't set out to read indigenous stories this month, but hit four. "Juanit", "The Berry Pickers", "Black Sun", and in nonfiction, "Oak Flat". I had "Oak Flat" on my shelf for too long, but sadly the fight to protect Apache land in New Mexico is ongoing, so the book is definitely still relevant.
I read seven graphic novels this month (all through Comics Plus from the library). The best of these was the three volumes of "Elle(s)", translated from the French. It's kind of a teen "Inside Out". I also enjoyed "In Shadows", a fantasy duology translated from French.
