Early-October Reading Wrap-up

I finished September steeped in upper-class Britain, so figured I’d go ahead and tackle “The Remains of the Day”. I want to read more Kazuo Ishiguro, anyway. I saw the movie thirty years ago, and I don’t remember the Nazi stuff at all. This book is brutal at times, with an unreliable narrator who isn’t sympathetic, but I’m still glad I read it. Definitely see why it won the Booker (at 10 now).

I picked up “A Children’s Bible”, Lydia Millet, for the environmental book club. It’s a dystopian novel, and the Bible references are interesting, though not as important as the title might indicate. My standards for dystopian literature are higher than for other genres, I guess, because I was disappointed in how unoriginal this is.

With October, I wanted to read more horror. Picked up the classic “Pet Sematary”, Stephen King. I haven’t read much King at all (I want to re-read “The Stand” at some point). I remembered the movie enough, but was also surprised at how much is given away early on, although things don’t go south until the last 10% of the book. Lots of dated product references were funny. I liked it, but it doesn’t make me want to rush to read more King. It kept The Ramones stuck in my head for quite a stretch.

I’ve been team werewolf since childhood. “Wolfsong”, T.J. Klune, is not horror, but a romance set in rural Oregon. His writing is compelling, but I can understand why folks find the romantic pair disturbing ... there is a six year age difference and they meet when the youngest is ten. The hot and heavy sex doesn’t take place until they are adults, but it highlighted for me how abbreviated or absent sex scenes are in most of my reading. Fun read, but I won’t continue with the sequels.

We owned “The Wild Robot”, Peter Brown, but no one had read it. We’ll wait for the movie to stream, but figured I should read it. It’s targeted at an elementary age reader, so reads really fast. It’s a fun, heartwarming story. Brown’s “Mr. Tiger Goes Wild” is one of the best board books, so happy to see the author doing well.

I mistakenly thought “Whiskey When We’re Dry”, John Larison, was about moonshiners when I checked it out. Instead, it’s a western, set in 1880s western U.S. (maybe Utah, Nevada, California). The main character has to pass as a man to track down her brother. Great writing, with social commentary sprinkled throughout to give it some spice.

More horror with “The Haunting of Hill House”, Shirley Jackson. I understand why it’s a classic of the genre. I’ll get around to some of her other books over time.

“The Zen Gun”, Barrington J. Bayley, is pretty gonzo. It has like four or five sci-fi concepts that could have been used to write independent stories, but instead it’s all crammed into 150 pages with multiple characters and plot lines. The empire in decay theme is played out well.

Finishing off my fiction is “Howl’s Moving Castle”, Diana Wynne Jones. I couldn’t guess how many times our family has watched the movie. It was interesting to see where the stories diverge. They are both fun in their own ways. I plan to read more of her books as time permits.

I finished the “Dungeons & Dragons 2024 Player’s Handbook”. Most people don’t read this front to back like a novel, it’s a reference book afterall. But I did read through most of it, while skimming some class and spell details. This counts as my only nonfiction of the month. Still no idea when I’ll get to play, but got a couple solo-adventure books lined up.

Related, I’m not into “Rick and Morty”, but the “Rick and Morty vs. Dungeons & Dragons: Deluxe Edition” graphic novel is a lot of fun for any longtime D&D players. Plenty of digs into the old material and at purists who dislike any changes to the game.

I read four more volumes of “Lone Wolf and Cub”, 17–20. The conflict with the Yagyū is coming to a head.

Trying some different genres, I read “The Hachioji Specialty: Tengu’s Love”. Karasu tengu and tanuki are my two favorite Japanese folklore types, so I was curious to see what they did with tengu. It’s a slow romance which was fun, but I won’t be reading the next volume when it comes out.

I read the first four volumes of “The Summer Hikaru Died”, Mokumokuren. The premise drew me in, and I’m curious to see where this one goes. It’s an ongoing series, so I’ll have to wait for volume 5.

The biggest graphic novel dud this month is “Once Our Land”, Peter Ricq. The art is quirky, but the anachronisms take points away from a story that is already not that interesting.

Volume 11 of “Saga” keeps me reading Brian K. Vaughan’s latest, though it does feel like it is dragging on a bit.

“My Heart in Braille”, Joris Chamblain, is translated from French, in the YA romance genre. You know where it is going pretty early, but nice story and art.

“White Ash”, Charlie Stickney, looked like it might be a fun concept even if the art is a little less appealing. But I’m not going to keep up with this one. There are some offshoot comics about an unsympathetic character from this book, which makes me think the story isn’t going in a direction I’ll care about.
