27 July Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“Rogue Protocol” is the third Murderbot novella. I read the first two over a year ago, and their selection for book club spawned me to read on. If you like the Murderbot series, this is a good addition, as our SecUnit sneaks onto a ship in order to try to uncover more information about the GrayCris Corporation. Like ART in the second book, our narrator must interact with a bot whose personality is quite different, not to mention all the pesky humans. I have holds on the 4th and 5th books, as well as the 2.5 story that just came out.

“A Drop of Corruption” is the follow-up to “The Tainted Cup”, which I read just over a month ago. The book is like a mash up of all the best parts of Sherlock Holmes, Attack on Titan, and Pacific Rim. We learn more about our two main characters, as they seek to solve a murder in an allied region at the edge of the empire. Great fun, and I will definitely keep up with the series. I might even seek out some of the author’s earlier work if time permits. Oh, and the Author’s Note in this one is excellent, commenting on the role of kings and autocrats in fantasy fiction.

-- Nonfiction --

“There’s Always This Year” is my second book by Hanif Abdurraqib. These essays circle around a basketball theme, particularly his relationship to Ohio-native LeBron James and the Cavaliers. Abdurraqib’s writing is downright poetic, and his memories of hard times are relatable. Definitely glad I read this despite my lack of interest in basketball, and I look forward to the book club discussion next month. There’s another book of his I hope to read as well.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Team Avatar Tales” collects tons of filler stories into a single volume. Most of these are focused on humor. They take place all along the timeline of the series. They are cute stories, with a wide mix of art styles. But these are also total side material, none of them enriching our understanding of the world in the way that the other comics have.

“Infinitum” is a beautiful book that I had to request from the library. There are many pages with little to no text, while some pages have an epistolary feel tracking the memories of not only the main character but others he was in love with over time. We start well into the past, establishing the curse that makes our narrator immortal, and then end in the far distant future. The book fell flat for me, feeling more like a collection of ideas without real character or story development.

“Ashes of the Academy” takes place after the events of the first series, as well as after the comics around Zuko’s mother. We see Zuko’s younger sister attending the academy Azula attended, known for training the daughters of the elite. But Zuko has plans to address the harms of the past 100 years in education. It’s a pretty good story, addressing head-on some of the issues we see in education today, where right-wing zealots insist on restricting education under the veil of “protecting children”. Definitely recommend if you’ve read the other major comics.

“Fault Lines” is a collection of three unrelated stories, taking place across three decades and three different countries. One story follows a young woman struggling to save enough money to record her music. Another follows a mother whose life is changed in a car crash. The last has a deaf man suddenly “hearing” a sound that his daughter helps him track down. These were great tales, making for an excellent collection. Definitely the best graphic novel I read this week.

“The Giants: Erin and Yrso” is translated from French and in the B.D. style (the author is from French-speaking Canada). This is targeted at a younger audience. The world looks like it has potential, piquing the reader’s curiosity about the giants and what their powers might be. But, there are rapid jumps near the end, like the creators ran out of space and time and needed to wrap it up. For example, when the evil corporation henchmen casually walk unannounced into the house and offer to help and it gets no reaction from the relatives beyond an OK.

“Second Shift” is a dystopian sci-fi tale, taking place in some remote location in space where humans go in and out of deep sleep while working shifts for overseeing mining operations. The daily routine is broken up by dips into V.R., but Birdie’s brother isn’t as engaged in them as she is. This is slow burn and recommended for those with a taste more toward literary sci-fi.

“Living Hell” is an urban fantasy, where our main character is a former god who has escaped Hell to hide among mortals. But in order to save his daughter, he has to take on the job of hunting down others like himself and returning them to Hell. The twist on demons living among us is engaging, and I quite enjoyed this story. It is a complete story, but I’d read more if there was a follow-up, which seems possible.

I read another graphic novel by the author earlier this year and noticed that “The Girl from the Sea” was her most popular. Since I’ve read most of her work, I wanted to pick this up, too. Fifteen-year-old Morgan is saved by a selkie, and their budding romance makes it difficult for her to stay in the closet around her friends. This didn’t have the same impact on me as “The Deep Dark”, but is still a good story. I think the teenager target audience will enjoy this the most, but I wouldn’t recommend it beyond that.
