26 October Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“Anji Kills a King” begins with the titular event. Anji then flees, hoping to outpace the bounty hunters after her. This is propulsive writing, with flawed characters that aren’t always likable. Anji’s naïveté grates at time, but is definitely in character. The world building is fun, with the reader’s uncertainty about how magical things are as the protagonist is also unsure. And the politics goes deeper than the obvious assassination at the start. This is the first book in what looks to be a duology, and I am looking forward to second book next year.

I’ve been meaning to read “Emergency Skin” for a while, and I’d not read any Jemisin this year yet. This is a novelette, told from the perspective of the embedded A.I. as our protagonist returns to earth to collect some biological samples that are necessary to save their distant colony. This book is chef’s kiss, using the perspective to infer so much. I could see some complaining that it’s a little heavy handed, but I loved it. A must read, and not just for Jemisin fans.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

I read “Kindred” about twenty years ago. And, although I’d like to reread it at some point, I thought the graphic novel version would make a great refresher before an upcoming book club. Dana lives with her white husband in 1970s L.A., when suddenly she is pulled back in time to save a little boy. She quickly pieces together that this is her ancestor, so she feels compelled to help him lest she never exist. This is a great rendition of an excellent book. It explores the brutal reality of slavery as well as our contemporary understanding of it.

“The Color of the End” is a post-apocalyptic story where a young women is working in a large, Tōkyō-like city, collecting dead bodies and cleansing contamination. Some fifty years after the event, we quickly learn that our protagonist is no normal human. She keeps an eye out for living humans while exploring. This story reminded me of Kino’s Journey, with each chapter an episodic exploration of the world. I didn’t find myself engaged by the world and mystery, so I won’t be continuing on with this series.

“Luciole Has a Dream” is a post-apocalyptic comic, where young Luciole and the mage Claude travel around looking for any other humans who may still be alive. Some humans may be in stasis in pods which can only be open from the outside. While the artwork is beautiful, the story was uninteresting to me. There’s the mystery of Claude’s power and Luciole’s origins, but these were not compelling enough to make we want to continue on with the series.

I decided to give “Soul Eater” a try after seeing a potentially interesting concept and high ratings online, though I have to admit I didn’t read too many details up front. Maka, a weapon meister, it trying to build a powerful living scythe (the Soul Eater of the title), and only has to collect one more evil soul from a witch. I DNF’ed this after the first chapter (of four in the book). I assumed there would be graphic scenes, given the large chest on the witch on the cover, but I didn’t expect there to be so much focus on it. It’s juvenile and uninteresting.

I’ve seen both seasons of “The Uncanny Counter”, so figured it would be interesting to see the webtoon it was based on. So Mun lives with his grandparents, after his parents died in a car crash that left him with a severe limp. And then, a “Counter” dies nearby and joins with So Mun, giving him supernatural senses and abilities so that he can help in track down evil spirits that possess evil people. I liked the T.V. series and the manhwa is enjoyable too. There are some changes. To the show’s credit, it draws out the mystery a bit longer on the characters’ backgrounds. The comic has multi-ethnic characters which isn’t explicit in the show. I’m enjoying it and will probably finish all five volumes by next week.
