24 August Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

I picked up “The Sapling Cage” because it’s on the 2025 Ursula K. Le Guin Prize for Fiction short list. There’s a review on Goodreads that describes the book as “trans witch D&D”, and that is a highly accurate description. The book isn’t particularly deep or literary, but still a lot of fun. The character interactions are fun, and I liked how the big bad builds up.

“Dissolution” is one of those books where you could be oblivious that it was sci-fi until several chapters in. The chapters alternate between the experiences of Stanley as he comes of age in 1950s Britain, then a chapter in the present where Stanley’s elderly wife is being interrogated to find out what has happened to Stanley. Contemporary Stanley has advanced dementia. The tension builds quite well, and it isn’t clear that this is a time-travel book right away. And the ending? Oh so good. Definitely recommended.

“When the Wolf Comes Home” may have hit my radar because of werewolves? I don’t read this horror and thrillers much, but it was still a fun ride. Jessa, an aspiring actress and waitress at a low-end diner, embarks on a series of events that has her protecting a five-year-old boy from his father, who seems to have certain transformation abilities. But things get complicated. And hey, bonus points for a prominent Ursula K. Le Guin reference.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“The Stoneshore Register” has African refugee Fadumo arriving in a small, isolated Pacific Northwest fishing town. She gets herself hired on at the local paper and quickly becomes obsessed with uncovering town secrets that no one seems interesting in thinking about. The overall story is interesting, but the portrayal of Fadumo’s obsession versus just acclimating to the town feel a little too stiff for my taste. G. Willow Wilson is behind the “Bird King” series, as well as the early Ms. Marvel reboot from ten years ago, so I generally like her work, though this wouldn’t be my first recommendation for her.

I picked up “Parable of the Sower: A Graphic Novel Adaptation” because it won the Hugo Award for Graphic Story. I like the art style, and the text is quite loyal to the original. Although I highly recommend everyone read the original Butler duology, this could be a nice refresher or introduction. Because I reread both books at the beginning of the year, it was a little tedious for me to read this so soon afterward. I don’t plan to pick up the sequel for now.

I read “Realm of the Blue Mist” back when it came out, but had forgotten pretty much everything. So, I needed to reread this volume before moving onto the sequel that just came out. It’s a good YA story, with fifteen-year-old Tabitha haunted by the mysterious circumstances that led to her father’s death seven year ago. When she is transported to a distant world where magic exists, she just might have a chance to figure out what happened.

After three years, “Kingdom of Water” came out earlier this month to finally move Tabitha’s story forward. We find out more about Rema and its political turmoil, but also about Tabitha’s father and the role he played. This is a solid follow-up to the first book. I liked it a little better, as some of the wrinkles of the first book are smoothed out here. The main story does wrap up, but then a larger mission is laid out at the end. I’m not sure how many more books she plans to put out.
