5 October Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“The Physics of Sorrow”, Georgi Gospodinov
I came across “The Physics of Sorrow” when looking at Jan Michalski Prize winners, and I hadn’t yet read a book from a Bulgarian author. This is a literary work that’s hard to describe in detail. The narrator (and author) was born in early January 1968, but also has access to the memories of his father and grandfather. We cover the experience of 20th century Bulgaria, all while repeatedly cycling back to the myth of the Minotaur. The translation is masterful, and Gospodinov’s skill as a writer is clear. This book isn’t for everyone, but if you have a taste for translated literature, check it out.

“Network Effect”, Martha Wells
“Network Effect” is fifth in the Murderbot series and the first novel. SecUnit is settling in to PreservationAux, working on contract to protect what he’s still reluctant to call “friends”. While accompanying them on a mission, things quickly goes south when they are attacked ... and the Perihelion is involved. This is the best of the series so far, and I found my self laughing out loud quite a few times. I will try to read the last two books in the series before the end of the year, and a new book is scheduled for May of next year.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“The Blessed Machine: The Complete Collection”, Jesse Hamm, Mark Rodgers
“The Blessed Machine” is dystopian sci-fi in the vein of “Silo”, where society has moved underground for well over a hundred years as the result of environmental destruction on the surface. A single A.I., Djinn, directs life in the colony, handling maintenance bots and maintaining systems ... but things are slowly degenerating. Jacob, the son of a council member, has dreams of plants growing on the surface, despite Djinn’s assurance that temperatures there are still much too warm. The art and storytelling are a little clunky, but I still enjoyed myself for the length. To me, the last panel hints at something sinister.

“Transformers, Volume 1: Robots in Disguise”, Daniel Warren Johnson
“Transformers: Robots in Disguise” kicks off a reboot of the Transformers universe. We start with our human protagonists present when an alien ship becomes unburied from the mountain where it crashed. As one robot after another is brought back to life by the repair system, the battle between Decepticons and Autobots begins anew on Earth. I picked this up because of a couple favorable reviews and mentions. I had a few Transformers toys as a kid, and have fond memories of seeing the 1986 movie in the theater with friends. But I lost interest and have never seen any of the live-action movies in their entirety (I dislike Michael Bay’s work). I liked this art here, but the story was too cheesy for my taste. Many of the silly catchphrases are pulled in without providing any context as to why these aliens would be speaking English slang in line with the forms they only take after arriving on our planet.

“Down to the Bone: A Leukemia Story”, Catherine Pioli
“Down to the Bone” is the graphic memoir of Pioli, who was diagnosed with leukemia as an adult (32). She grew up in Corsica, and this work is translated from the French. We join her as she goes from trying to understand her sciatica to getting hospitalized and undergoing chemotherapy. She brings in the medical details with ease while also exploring the personal and emotional side of the diagnosis. This is not a happy book, but the art is beautiful and elegantly simple. I’d definitely recommend for anyone who has someone in their life with leukemia.
