26 January Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“The Buddha in the Attic” is my third book by Julie Otsuka. The style (largely first-person plural) will be difficult for many to read, but I found it a powerful recollection of the various and certainly non-uniform experiences of the many Japanese women who immigrated to the United States in the early 1900s as picture brides. It continues up through their confinement in concentration camps in 1942. It’s an excellent reminder that even an identity as seemingly straightforward as “Japanese-American” has many, many facets.

“Witchcraft for Wayward Girls” is the latest from Grady Hendrix. In the summer of 1970 at a home for “wayward” girls in Florida, pregnant teenagers struggle to come to terms with their situation. The main character is Looking to help out those who need it in a situation where they are seemingly powerless ... until a book of witchcraft comes into their hands. It’s an enjoyable book if you like his style, though not my favorite of his (my third).

“The Horse”, Willy Vlautin, was recommended by Jason De León, whose “Soldiers and Kings” I read a few weeks ago. It is largely a series of reminiscences of Al Ward, a man in his sixties living in central Nevada. His highs are good relationships and success as a guitarist and songwriter, but he also struggles with alcoholism and depression. It’s beautifully told, and felt very real. I can see myself picking up more of Vlautin’s work in the future.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“H.P. Lovecraft’s The Call of Cthulhu”, Tanabe Gou, amazingly captures the spirit of the tale. I cannot imagine another visual artist capturing these stories better. I think I’ve only read one or two Lovecraft stories, but since the library has several of Tanabe’s adaptations, I expect I’ll work through them when I can.

“The Awl” volume 2, Choi Gyu-seok, continues this excellent manhwa series as the workers at the grocery store put in the work to build a union and fight back against corporate greed. It does an excellent job of showing the difficulties involved. I’ll be picking this up as new volumes get translated into English, and I will probably buy the originals when I’m in Korea, even if I cannot read them.
