9 March Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

Until late last year, “Acceptance” was the end of the Southern Reach trilogy, so this book wraps up a lot of questions the reader has, though still leaves a lot unanswered. Perspective shifts both from character to character, but also around in time. I’ve enjoyed the series, but definitely have to sit with it a bit more to wrap my head around some of it, and I can see myself rereading it a few years down the road. I’ll probably get the final book in the next week or two.

-- Nonfiction --

“The Nazis Next Door: How America Became a Safe Haven for Hitler’s Men” is a jaw-dropping review of all the horrible people the U.S. let into the country, all while denying entry to Holocaust survivors. Some of the filth came in because the government wanted to use their scientific expertise, like Wernher von Braun and Hubertus Strughold (more emphasis on the latter in this book). But most of the Nazis profiled in the book were brought in by the CIA. It’s a good reminder of what kind of values the U.S. government holds. Dedicated investigators uncovered these ties, and by the 80s (yes, after 40 years of comfortable living in America), some had their citizenship taken away by the Justice Department.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Cthulhu Cat” is just silly. It’s the tale of a boy who adopts Cthulhu in cat form, and many of the other old gods from the mythos make it into the story as well. I’d only recommend this absurdist track for hardcore fans of the Lovecraftian who are looking for a humorous take on things.

“Minor Threats, Vol. 1: A Quick End to a Long Beginning” is an excellent skewering of superhero fiction, told from the perspective of a group of minor league villains who are trying to stop the heroes from rampaging their neighborhood. Each chapter is from a different perspective, so you gain empathy for each of them. Definitely recommended for anyone who can appreciate a critique of the authoritarian nature of superheroes.

“Minor Threats, Vol. 2: The Fastest Way Down” focuses on Playtime and the aftermath of the events of volume one. Worth reading if you enjoyed the first volume, though not quite as good.

“The Alternates, Vol. 1” takes place in the world of “Minor Threats”, but in a completely separate storyline. The story stands on its own without having read the other books first, though you might miss some of the world building. Like volume one of “Minor Threats”, each chapter is centered on the perspective of one of the minor league heroes, all who helped defeat a threat in the past which the most powerful superheroes didn’t want to risk taking on. Recommended if you liked the other books, I enjoyed this more than volume 2.

“Mage and the Endless Unknown” is a nearly wordless tale. It’s a bit dark, but I also found it confusing a times, and not simply because of the silence.
