19 January Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“Butter: A Novel of Food and Murder”, Asako Yuzuki, is sort of a true crime novel. Rika, a journalist, is trying to understand a convicted killer‘s motivation as the appeal is coming up. All this in the middle of a butter shortage in 2011. The story is based upon the actual case of Kijima Kanae, who is on death row based on circumstantial evidence. The book dives into fat-phobia and misogyny, all while teasing the foodie instincts of the reader. I liked it more than I thought I was going to, but this is partly because the audiobook was grating, hearing Japanese words and names (and “paella”) mispronounced in a British accent.

-- Nonfiction --

“Knife: Meditations After an Attempted Murder” recounts the assassination attempt on the author and his path to recovery. It‘s pretty heavy on details, but for me the most interesting point is when he conducts a mental conversation with the attacker. At some point I want to read “Midnight’s Children”, since I have not read any of his fiction yet.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Traveling to Mars”, Mark Russell, is a heartwarming graphic novel about a man sent on a one-way mission to Mars. Roy is a former pet store manage with terminal cancer, but they only need him to live long enough to step foot on the planet in order to stake a claim to the natural gas deposits there. It’s a six-month journey, leaving Roy with plenty of time to contemplate his life. Along the way, we get some fun social commentary.

In “War on Gaza”, Joe Sacco returns his journalist’s eye to the events of the past sixteen months, as Israel carries out genocide while Joe Biden hallucinated atrocities in order to justify U.S. funding and support for the slaughter. This is a shorter work, but many poignant images. Everyone should check out his 1993 collection, “Palestine” (available through the library via ComicsPlus).

“Canto: A Place Like Home” 6
“Cruel Kingdom” 1
“Space Ghost” 9
“Space Usagi: White Star Rising” 3
“The Moon Is Following Us” 5
