19 January Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

-- Nonfiction --

“Notes of a Native Son” is a collection of critical essays alongside recollections of growing up in Harlem and time in France after the war. It’s been more than thirty years since I read Richard Wright’s “Native Son”, but the critique prodded my memory well. I’ve never seen “Carmen Jones”, so that essay was less interesting to me. The real gems, for me, were the latter part of the book. These combine the general experience of life at the time for a black man in New York alongside Baldwin’s personal development coming of age. I wouldn’t recommend starting your Baldwin reading journey here, but it is still great writing.

“Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments”, Saidiya Hartman, does not read like most nonfiction. She digs deep into the personal lives of black women in the 1890s and the first few decades of the 1900s. It is pretty amazing that the author was able to find the material to put this together. It’s a great lesson in how non-famous people lived their lives, as well as the role that vice and vagrancy laws have been used to control women. And then there are details like how the age of consent was 10 until the 1890s, and raising to 16–18 was fought against because of “fears” that young black women would “use” the new statutory rape laws against white men.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Sea Serpent’s Heir Book Two: Black Wave” and “Sea Serpent’s Heir Book Three: Queen of Mercy”, Mairghread Scott, finish off the story I’d started the week before. The art comes together a little better in these issues. I liked how the story, twists, and turns played out, even if some of it was a little unsurprising.

“Reckless”, Ed Brubaker, is noir-ish crime story set in and around Los Angeles in 1981. Ethan Reckless helps people, sometimes for money. When someone from his past turns up needing help, we know he’s going to break some of his own rules and things are sure to head south. I quite liked how this tied in some real-world events to the story. There are four more books with this character, and I’ll pick them up at some point, especially if they are on ComicsPlus.

“Little Monsters”, Jeff Lemire, takes place in a post-apocalyptic Los Angeles, where a small group of children are somehow surviving. Despite the title, I went in knowing nothing else about the story, which made the reveals a bit more pleasurable as they came. I had been a little worried that it was a “Lord of the Flies” riff, but fortunately that is not the case. A fun read.

“Chainsaw Man”, Vol. 17, Tatsuki Fujimoto, is incrementally building up the story arc, with things coming to a bit of a head for Denji. The challenge for me now will be remembering what’s happened so far whenever volume 18 comes out.

“The Thirteen Origins: Cloudbreak” #1, Leticia Urieta
