19 October Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

I’d been meaning to read “Ring Shout” anyway, but then several coworkers called it out, so I bumped it up the queue. In 1922 Georgia, Maryse Boudreaux and fellow resistance fighters take on the Ku Klux Klan, but these are no ordinary racist humans. Among the ranks are actual demons. And that racist film from 1915 is more than just a recruiting device. This is a politically charged and fun adventure, in the same vein as the “Bitter Root” graphic novels. And honestly, they both share the same potential flaw, in that they present actual human beings’ monstrous behavior as being something supernatural. But it still feels good when young black women kick the tar out of the Klan.

I’ve heard people talking about “dark academia” as a genre lately, but the few that I’ve read so far have been just OK. “The Incandescent” changes all that. In contemporary England, Doctor Walden is Director of Magic at Chetwood Academy, a boarding school where students learn magic. Magic is rare, but not hidden or unknown, and Walden works to train the next generation to stay safe in the face of demons that would eat them without the proper wards. Although the book follows a year of schooling, here we are centered on the teacher and administrator instead of the students. The plot takes its time to develop, all while building up characters and the world in an engaging way. This book has definitely set the bar for what this genre can be. I’ll have to try to read more of Emily Tesh’s work in the next year.

“A Mouthful of Dust” is the sixth book in The Singing Hills Cycle, all but one of which I have read this year, placing Nghi Vo solidly in my most-read author of the year alongside Martha Wells. Each of the novellas in this series stand mostly on their own, although I recommend reading them sequentially. Chih and Almost Brilliant arrive in a town know for the devastating famine twenty years earlier, as well as for their famous pork dish. Chih is quickly ensnared by the local magistrate, who clearly hopes to restrict their ability to collect incriminating stories. A solid entry in the cycle and recommended if you’ve followed the series to this point.

“Defekt” is the unplanned sequel to “Finna”, which I read over three years ago. This story shifts focus to Derek, a model employee who lives and breaths LitenVärld, the store much like our Ikea but subject to wormholes and other inter-dimensional weirdness. But after he takes his first ever sick day, his manager assigns Derek to an inventory team that works after the store closes. This is a great follow-up, and like its predecessor, a skewering of work under capitalism. It’s also a call to break assumptions about those employees who may seem like suck-ups.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Shepherdess Warriors” is a middle-grade fantasy story, set in a village where the men all went off to war ten years ago. Now, the final generation is turning ten and getting their chance to train as Shepherdess Warriors. The art here is beautiful and quirky, and the characters are varied and funny. The storyline is, however, immature and best for a younger audience. As an adult, the story isn’t engaging enough for me to continue reading the series, which has five volumes.

“Family Force V” is set in a near future, after a demon-like alien force has begun attacking earth, but a separate set of robotic aliens has adopted a small group of humans to stand against them, Power Ranger style. A generation later, people benefit from the new technology, but the threat has spread as well, with one family relocated to Los Angeles to fight there. Maise is in high school and struggling to be her own person while keeping her family’s secret and fighting in her off hours. The writing and art are fluid an engaging, but the tropes are a bit eye-rolly. Fun for younger readers, but not worth it as an adult.

“The Buildings Are Barking” memorializes the life of Diane Noomin, an underground comic artist who gained prominence in the 1970s alongside Crumb and her husband, Bill Griffith, known for Zippy the Pinhead. I was certainly more aware of Bill’s art, though I never got seriously into Zippy. This short work is really Bill working through his grief at the loss of his wife when they were both in their seventies. It’s a touching work focused on that grief, with a cursory introduction to Diane and her primary character, DiDi Glitz. Only recommended for fans of either of their oeuvres.

I don’t remember coming across “False Knees” before, but I’m an immediate fan. The books are collections of mostly four-panel comics, mostly featuring birds having very human-like thoughts and conversations. Some of these vignettes are introspective, and most often just downright funny. I found myself laughing quite a few times, and taking screenshots of strips to share with friends. I’ll be following this strip from now on.
