2 February Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

I read Colson Whitehead’s “The Underground Railroad” over six years ago, and while interesting, I wasn’t enamored with his style. But after hearing an interview about “The Nickel Boys”, I decided to pick it up. The book is excellent, telling a fictionalized story of the read “school” that operated up until 2011. It recounts the abusive conditions, along with the arbitrary situations that could get one subjected to abuse. A must-read. I have Tananarive Due’s novel based upon the same school on hold, so will revisit this subject again in the next month or so.

I saw the movie for “Annihilation” some time ago, but had been meaning to read the books as well. Even for a short book (less than 200 pages), it has more than the movie covered. It read like the best parts of “Roadside Picnic”, and I have already put a hold in for the next book in the series.

-- Nonfiction --

“African Europeans: An Untold History”, Olivette Otélé. I thought this book was going to focus more on pre-modern history, but it ends up covering Africans in Europe all the way up through the modern era. It’s a dry, academic read for the most part, with a lot of information, but also sometimes goes into full list mode. I could see this acting as a textbook for a college survey class. I wouldn’t recommend it unless you are really motivated by the subject matter.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

I really wasn’t sure what “Bear Pirate Viking Queen” was going to be about, but it was an interesting read nonetheless. It has some critiques of British colonialism alongside other expansionist efforts. I am not sure who to recommend it to. The art is more experimental than most graphic novel fare, but the lettering is difficult at times.

“Sea Serpent’s Heir Book One: Pirate’s Daughter” starts with your typical girl longing to see the world after living a sheltered life. I really like the art style, though it feels a bit inconsistent at times. I liked it enough that I have already started the second book and will likely finish the third and final one.

“Witch Hat Atelier”, Vol. 13, just published in English in January, so I had my hold in as soon as I could. The story is staying strong. I have no idea when 14 is expected.

The Bones of the Gods #1–3
By the Horns: Dark Earth #1
