2 March Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“Authority” is the second book in Jeff VanderMeer’s Southern Reach series. This picks up shortly after the events of “Annihilation”, with the focus on the new director of the Southern Reach, a man who calls himself “Control”. We learn more about the events of the previous book, as well as the history of Area X and the efforts to explore it. The book contains one of the creepiest scenes I’ve read in a book in a long time. I didn’t like this one nearly as much as the first book, I think mostly because I didn’t find Control to be a compelling or likable character. But, I will be continuing the series: my library hold just came in.

I’m pretty sure that “My Brilliant Life”, by Kim Ae-ran, was a recommendation from Han Kang. It’s a fairly short tale about a 16-year-old boy who has a rare disease that causes his body to age at a much faster rate, such that it’s questionable whether he will reach his 17th birthday. It is a sentimental tale, but felt quite believable as you explore the inner life of the narrator.

I think I first read the “Parable of the Sower” around 2002, definitely before Octavia E. Butler passed away in 2006. Published in 1993, the events take place from 2024 through 2027, and the foresight she has into the direction of U.S. society is rather uncanny. To quote the author, “All I did was look around at the problems we’re neglecting now and give them about 30 years to grow into full-fledged disasters.” This is a masterpiece of American and science-fiction writing. The importance of building a community with a plan to the future is central. But also important is the tension in deciding when and how to act in a time of crisis and collapsing society. It’s not an easy choice, but it is one we are all facing in our near futures. I’ll be rereading the second book starting this week.

-- Nonfiction --

“The Principles of Communism” is a series of twenty five questions and answers about communism, written by Friedrich Engels in 1847 in the lead up to writing the “Communist Manifesto”. It lays out what communism is, but also the historical development of the economy and society that led him and his fellow activists to come to the conclusions they did. It’s a wonderful, short read that’s a good primer for anyone.

“A Short History of Reconstruction” proved to be an excellent companion piece to “Free State of Jones”, which I just watched this past week. I’d been meaning to read more on this history, and it also seems timely to understand the collapse of Reconstruction and the immense set-back it was to civil rights and decency in the United States. It was a fascinating period of our history, and Foner lays out how much of it rested on black folks organizing and fighting. It also clearly shows the terrorism against the population along with the “blind eye” of those in authority, the outright assassination of political leaders.

“One Day, Everyone Will Have Always Been Against This” is part memoir, but mostly an analysis and a condemnation of the moral pretense of western ideals. It is beautifully written, and I intend to read more from the author. This book is solidly in the MUST READ category. A quick read, but you should take your time to think over the implications. We live in a society that has sat back and watched genocide in real time. What is the path forward for humanity (in all its definitions).

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

I didn’t know what to expect from “Paper Girls”, but I usually like Brian K. Vaughan’s work (though his endings can be a bit iffy). We have four 12-year-old girls from the outskirts of 1988 Cleveland thrust into a time-travel story.There are some wonderful digs at contemporary society thrown in there, though most of it is the twists and turns of a tale where we’ve already seen some of the ending in earlier parts of the tale. This 784-page beast collects all the TPBs into a single volume, but it is nice to read a story that’s complete, instead of being left hanging for who knows how long (cough cough “Saga”).

“Ashes” is a combination mystery and road trip story translated from the Spanish. I enjoyed the quirky art and literary references. It bumps into the absurd at times, but still feels quite real in the relationships and struggles of the main characters.

“Tunis to Sydney” starts with the main character learning that her parents back in Tunisia have dies in a car crash. Traveling to Tunis and back to handle the funeral and cleaning out her childhood home, it’s a story of loss but also of identity. It wasn’t the greatest tale, but moving for what it was.

“The Legend of Korra: The Mystery of Penquan Island” has a reveal that I wasn’t really expecting but is right there on the cover of the book. It’s a typical Avatar story, giving us background on Mako and Bolin (with only a brief cameo from Korra and Asami). Only recommended for serious Avatar fans, but fun nonetheless.
