2 November Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“Rakesfall” caught my attention when it was shortlisted for the Le Guin Prize and was already in my hold queue when it won. This book is quite hard to describe. It starts with a back and forth between a TV show and the viewers, unsure of whether one or both might be reality. This part is firmly embedded in Sri Lankan society and history. Things spiral out from there, as we bounce between generations past and present. I liked this book, but it is also a difficult book that has a limited audience. If you do read it, I suggest reading it in print. The audiobook was well done, but this is a text that calls for rumination.

-- Nonfiction --

“There Is No Place for Us” reads like a sequel to Desmond’s 2016 “Evicted”, and not just because the audiobooks have the same narrator. We follow five Atlanta families as they become homeless and struggle to stay afloat and find housing amid that city’s gentrifuckation. This is life in modern America for the working poor, one hardship away from losing access to housing, with a system stacked against them. The details will floor you: like electric bills soaring out of control, with the tenant bearing all the responsibility for something that is clearly the building owner’s fault, while the power company rakes it in. A must read for understanding the state of our economy.

“State of Resistance” is a political history of California, from the 1950s through 2018. It focuses on the shift from progressive to regressive and back to progressive over that time period. The ’50s saw economic boom, but starting in the ’70s, highlighted with Prop 13, the state takes an extremely regressive turn, like Prop 187 in the ’90s seeking to bar immigrants from public services. The final part of the book focuses on what it took for activists to turn the tide, such that by the 2010s more progressive propositions were passing at the state level. This book was written in the first Trump presidency to motivate Democratic Party activists to spread the turnaround “success” of California to the U.S. as a whole. It reads quite dated and naive now, in Trump’s second term, but also with its frequent positive mentions of de León and Cedillo, of 2021 racist secret recording infamy. If I wasn’t reading this for book club, I would have DNF’ed it early on.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

I finished that last three volumes of “The Uncanny Counter” at the beginning of the week. These volumes complete a story arch that maps closely to the series on Netflix. It does end with a set-up for further adventures, but no additional books are currently out in English. If you liked the series, it’s a fun read.

Volume 6 of “The Summer Hikaru Died” is out in English now, so I picked it up as soon as I saw it was available. The story makes a lot of progress in understanding what might be going on among the villages, as well as understanding better what “Hikaru” is. I’m on board for volume 7 when it comes out, and I’m reminded that I need to watch the anime at some point.

I read “Electric Cowboy” mostly because it was short and looked like it had potential. Luckily it is short, because if you want to understand it, you’ll likely have to read it again to make sense of the story line. I liked the art, and it feels appropriate to the story, but I cannot say that I recommend it. Oddly enough, when looking up the artists, I think they live nearby.

The premise of “Pop Kill” was gonzo enough that I thought it would be fun. Two soda pop companies dominate the world and are run by two brothers, formerly conjoined twins. Their rivalry is often deadly, and besides corporate espionage, they employ contract killers against each other. One of those hit men is sent to uncover the potential breakthrough in carbonation that a scientist is on the verge of. This story is quite silly, with nauseating plot armor on the playboy contract killer that drives the story.
