7 December Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“Capitalists Must Starve” follows Juryong as she comes of age in Japanese-occupied Korea. The story starts in Gando, what is now China just across the border from Korea, and eventually lands in 1930s Pyongyang. She is married to a 15 year old in hopes by his parents that the marriage will prevent him from joining up with the anti-Japanese resistance in the mountains. Instead, Juryong ends up joining her husband in the fight. This is great historical fiction. I enjoyed reading her transition from peasant to working class. Things in the last section of the book feel like they could have been fleshed out more, making this reader feel at times like I missed something. But other than that, my only other complaint is about the typography: Korean names should be hyphenated at the syllable boundary (“Ju-ryong”, not “Jury-ong”). Recommended.

“Buckeye” has been getting award buzz, and it’s easier to get me interested in historical fiction taking place in Ohio. Starting in the 1930s and covering several decades, we follow the intermingled relationships of four people in fictional Bonhomie, in northwestern Ohio. Cal was born with one leg shorter and is blocked from enlisting for WWII, ignorant of his father’s true feelings about war. Cal’s wife Becky can speak with the dead, which is treated as completely real in the story. Margaret was abandoned to an orphanage as a baby and struggles with figuring out what she wants. Felix marries Margaret, moving them to Bonhomie before enlisting and serving three and a half years in the Pacific. And then Cal and Margaret have an affair. “Buckeye” is an interesting book, and the depiction of typical Americans working their way through the ’40s, ’50s, and ’60s felt real. I didn’t connect with any of the characters, but at the same time, I wasn’t disinterested enough that I wanted to put it down. I could see myself selectively recommending this to some.

“It Can’t Happen Here” is a 1935 dystopian novel by Sinclair Lewis that has gained popularity because it feels like it was treated as an instruction manual by the current administration. Despite protestations that “it can’t happen here”, the 1936 nominee for the Democratic Party is a fascist, who sweeps the election with a mix of religious and political demagoguery, including parades that feature both Union and Confederate soldiers. The political satire is often on-point, describing the events of 1936 and 1937 and the way those with power respond to the changing circumstances. But the further you read into the book, the more tedious and tenuous it gets, and while most of the humor is punching up, there’s also a lot of punching down. By the half-way point, I was really questioning whether I should finish the book. If you are going to suffer through this book, it would be worthwhile to find one with annotations, since the names dropped throughout the book are real people, direct digs at his contemporaries. The false equivalency that buoys the main character’s beliefs gets really nauseating, since he returns to it often. And this feeds into the fantasy ending that doesn’t even approach deus ex machina, but seems to reflect the author’s sad hope that the parties that bring on fascism will somehow play a positive role in getting rid of it. Lewis won the Nobel five years before publishing this book, so I might try one of his earlier books, but it won’t be a priority.
