19 January Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“What Feasts at Night” is the second book in the Sworn Soldier series. You don’t need to read “What Moves the Dead” first: three primary characters are the same, but only a couple inconsequential references to the first story. This is my fifth novella of the Hugo finalists. I enjoyed the story, focused on the moroi mythology of eastern Europe, though I think I liked the first book a bit more. This one does delve into Alex Easton’s PTSD, which is what makes it most interesting. Recommended if you like Kingfisher and enjoyed the first book.

“Into the Riverlands” is the third novella in The Singing Hills Cycle. Each of the novellas in this series are sequential, but also stand on their own. I think this is my favorite of the series, since it is written with a Wuxia flavor and directly calls back to the “Water Margin”. The narrator is less active in this one.

“Mammoths at the Gates” is the fourth novella in The Singing Hills Cycle. It references back to the second tale, but still stands alone. We see Chih return to the monastery after four years away, only to find out that the abbot has passed. And, his granddaughter has some rather large mammoths at the gates. A nice addition to the series.

“The Brides of High Hill” is the fifth and latest novella in The Singing Hills Cycle. It is my final novella of the Hugo finalists. It was nice to read through four of the five books in the series in a short period, keeping the characters fresh in my head. This tale dips into horror, and it is nice to see that each of the books touches on different parts of the Chinese literary canon. I liked the story, but it felt rather similar to another story I’ve read in the past year.

I came across the Ignyte Awards recently and downloaded most of the novellas, novelettes, and short stories to my Kindle. “A Witch’s Transition in the City of Ghosts” takes place in a city that was devastated in the past but rescued by witches. Their coven is now respected in the city. But our main character, born male, has shown magical talent, using potions to transition. But will she ever get fully accepted by the coven? And what if they find out about her lover?

“Demian” isn’t my first Hesse book, though I think it was high school when I last read this Nobel-winning author. Someone I know mentioned this as one of their favorites. It is a bildungsroman, published in 1919 but feeling like it ends just before WWI. We follow Sinclair from early childhood and into his twenties, as he tackles emotional and philosophical issues. The narrator rethinks the “Cain and Abel” story to think about duality, which had me researching the origins of that tale (the conflict between herding and agriculture). Apparently “Demian” is a very Jungian approach to discovery, but I found the latter part of the text a mix of pompous and disturbing in a “Stacy’s Mom” kind of way.

For a short story, “If the Martians Have Magic” has a ton of world building. It is an alternate history that takes place a couple decades after the events of (Wells’) “The War of the Worlds”. The conflict is a little too simplified for my taste, or maybe just that the main antagonist falls a little flat for me. But, overall I did enjoy this Ignyte Award winner.

“You Perfect, Broken Thing” is another Ignyte-winning short story, and my favorite of the ones I’ve read. We know that the narrator is training for something, and that in this dystopia, placing in the top three means access to a medication which could save their and their partner’s lives. That’s about all I can say, and it’s freely available from “Uncanny” magazine for a quick read.

“No Gods, No Monsters” is a great title, which is probably why I let it jump my queue. It is urban fantasy, where a murder leads to a chain of events revealing to the world that monsters do in fact exist. But the question is, why are we learning about all this now? There are multiple characters and points of view throughout the book, and I sometimes lost track of who knew who. I could see myself picking up the sequel at some point (and book three comes out later this year), but I think I’ll need to find a good summary before pushing forward to help align some of the events better in my head.

“The Inaccessibility of Heaven” is an Ignyte-winning novelette. A large number of Fallen (angels) live in Starhallow. Sam de Viera works to help those newly arrived after being kicked out of the Light for their rebellion. But then we learn that someone is killing Fallen in a rather gruesome manner. This murder mystery is engaging, playing with the Abrahamic religions with other mythologies mixed in as well.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Star Trek: Lower Decks―Warp Your Own Way” is my fourth graphic story of the Hugo finalists. I haven’t watched “Lower Decks” from the beginning, just a couple later episodes (also Hugo nominees). My exposure has indicated heavy fan service for hard-core Star Trek fans, but not super interesting without that. This choose-your-own-adventure got kinda tedious, and I had to write out a graph to shortcut the re-reads. I will give the book props for getting meta with the format. It is my least favorite of the finalists, and I suspect it will maintain that position as I tackle the last two nominees.
