8 June Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“The Butcher of the Forest” is my second Hugo finalist for novella. It’s also the second piece by Premee Mohamed nominated this year. In a late-medieval fantasy setting, a woman in her forties is forced into a mission by the Tyrant. We also know that there is more to her background that will be revealed as the story unfolds. I quite liked this one, and I think it edges out the first novella finalist. I have a couple other books by the author that were already in my TBR, so I hope to explore more of her work.

I realized last year that I want to read more China Miéville, and “Perdido Street Station” has been on my list for a while. The story is on the longer end, and it can feel rambling at times. The main tension and plot isn’t obvious until well into the book. The world building here is great, and I kept thinking that the steampunk city would be fun to role play in. It’s a great story, deserving of the awards it got. There are two more novels in the New Crobuzon series, so I’ll probably prioritize reading those Miéville works next time I decide to fit one in.

“Compound Fracture” is my second book by Andrew Joseph White, and it is even more amazing than the first one. It takes place in contemporary West Virginia, starting with the main character coming out as trans to his parents. But his family has had a “feud” with the Davies family for over one hundred years, going back to when a Davies ancestor publicly murdered Miles’ great-great grandfather, a socialist militant in the mines. This story is intense, and highly recommended. White has another book that I plan to read, and a new book releasing in September.

“The Practice, the Horizon, and the Chain” is my third novella of the Hugo finalists. I’ve read Sofia Samatar before, back in 2018, but didn’t find that book compelling. This novella is well crafted. You figure early on that it is dystopian, but it takes a bit to see the sci-fi element. Although not perfect, I quite liked this work, and it’s the best of the novellas I’ve read now.

Ann Leckie is an author I’ve been meaning to read, but “Lake of Souls” is my first by her. It’s my fifth novelette of the Hugo finalists. The tale is quite confusing at first, on purpose, and comes together well. I like the twist on the trope of waking from hypersleep to find nobody around, with some good social commentary there. I’m definitely more interested in her writing after this. It doesn’t take my top place for novelette selection, but I’d rank it in the upper half.

“The Four Sisters Overlooking the Sea” was my final novelette of the Hugo finalists. Naomi Kritzer’s excellent “The Year Without Sunshine” novelette won both the Hugo and Nebula last year. I could see this winning this year. There are parts of the story that are laugh-out-loud funny. It’s plausible-deniable fantasy, focused on the "two-body problem", i.e., what happens when two PhD students get married. It’s the only one of the shorter Hugo nominees that I handed to my wife as soon as I finished so she could read it too.

I must have put a hold on “Theory & Practice” when it won The Stella Prize. I must have heard something that made me think it would be interesting. I feel like I needed to have read more Virginia Wolfe before having read this. It’s a book solidly targeted at people with a Literature degree. There were a couple solid sections, but overall this is not a book I’d recommend. Luckily it was short.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --
