Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“A Forbidden Alchemy” is my first romantasy book (unless you count “Wolfsong”). In a land with a sharp class divide between Artisans and Craftsman, all twelve year olds report to the capital to drink the substance that conveys the magical abilities that makes one an Artisan. It’s supposed to be random, but Nina and Patrick discover that the elite pre-select those who get the real serum, while everyone else gets sent back to a life of drudgery. While Nina learns her rare ability, a rebellion breaks out across the country challenging the rule of the Artisans. The depiction of a late-18th century world in the midst of rebellion was right up my alley. But the utter stupidity of the main character at times, which serves the plot but breaks believability, turned me off. Additionally, the resting of an entire rebellion on a single man really put me off. I liked the book well enough, but won’t be continuing the series.

“Never Eaten Vegetables” jumps between the events en route to a moon colony, as seen by the sentient NEV-476, and life on the moon 26 years later by one of the survivors, Luwa. The world-building in this novelette is excellent, as we learn of a future dystopia where corporations send ships full of embryos off to distant worlds to extract resources. I did find the first part of the story a little rough to follow, but enjoyed the tale as the events came together. A nice work for its size, available online: https://clarkesworldmagazine.com/pak_01_25/

-- Nonfiction --

“The Fort Bragg Cartel” explores Special Forces, based out of Fort Bragg, North Carolina. We see the evolution of Special Forces into a secretive hit squad for U.S. interests, whether in the Americas, Africa, Iraq, or Afghanistan. Special Forces deployments rarely show in military records, and their murders don’t show in numbers reported to the public. Many soldiers end up addicted to drugs, from cocaine to methamphetamine to steroid, and several of them use their connections to bring drugs into the U.S. for sale. The violence this leads to toward themselves, their loved ones, and the people around them is staggering. And all in a culture of impunity, since they rarely face consequences for their actions. This book is dark and difficult at times, all the more so because it is real.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Scarecrow” starts deceptively as a story of a girl, Lily, who misses her mother, now that her father has remarried. She still believes that her mother has gone off to tour the world with her magic. We then learn that the scarecrow that sits atop a lonely hill has the ability to talk. Despite the age of the protagonist, this is not a children’s story. A separate plot line focuses on a car crash at the base of the scarecrow’s hill, though the stories do eventually merge. A quick, fun tale.

“Return to Eden” is a graphic, nonfiction exploration of the author’s mother, Antonia. It centers on the three photos from her youth, particularly one on the beach in Valencia where two members of the family are not present. We step through each of the six children’s lives, as well as their father’s and mother’s. Antonia came of age after the civil war, and supposes that part of their poverty is due to her father and eldest brother having fought on the side of the Republic. This is a touching tale, looking at the lives of ordinary people in the aftermath of a failed attempt to prevent Spain from going fascist (Franco held power until 1975). Recommended.

“Queen Kodiak” follows seventeen-year-old Joey, who can see empathic auras on the people around her. When her mother passes, she is reunited with her estranged father, moving from Seattle to an island in Alaska. It’s not where she wants to be, and the only friend she manages to make is with a gigantic grizzly bear. But when harm comes to Little Bear, we find out there’s a bigger bear out there: a mother. This is a mix of fun and emotional. Not a perfect story, but still an enjoyable read.

I learned of “Kampung Boy” in the preface to a “Macanudo” book, and didn’t realize it was a fictionalized memoir until I got it from the library. Published in 1979, it portrays the life of Mat, a young boy in 1950s rural Malaysia. A kampung is a village, and we see the different ceremonies that mark life and maturity, all with a slightly goofy art style (the depiction of the circumciser had me laugh with worry for the boys). We also see modernity changing life, from the tin smelter and rubber plantations, to the prospects of education in the city. I enjoyed the book and learned from it. This is the beginning of a series, though I doubt I’ll track down further volumes.
