Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

In a spot of serendipity, “Sympathy for the Devil” came in from the library as I was finishing a nonfiction account of Special Forces. Hanson is in college when the call to Viet Nam comes. He tests into Special Forces, becoming a Green Beret (as did the author). We get a very real exploration, from boot camp to deployment, which includes raids across the border into Laos. We get inside Hanson’s head, into the motivations and joys of the conflict. Along with the brutality and what contributes to it, we also get the absurdities: the speeding ticket scene was surreal. Considered by some to be the best novel on the U.S. war against Viet Nam, I’m inclined to agree.

“Red City” had been popping up a lot in my recommendations, reflected in how long it took for my hold to come in from the library. Sam’s mother brought her from Shanghai as a baby, settling in Angel City (alternate Los Angeles). She has an eidetic memory and a knack for being overlooked. Ari is an older boy overflowing with charisma when he is recruited from India to train as an alchemist. But the alchemical drug market in Angel City is divided between two rival gangs, Grand Central and Lumines. This reads like an action film at times, with exciting imagery of pulling guns and knives from walls at the speed of thought. The romantic tension is there, but not overwhelming (hence why I’m not sure if this counts as “romantasy”). The story is well written, and I did have sympathy for Sam. This is the first book in a series, though it mostly stands alone until the very end. I won’t be continuing the series.

I picked up “The Day Before the Revolution” in my search for award-winning short stories (Locus and Nebula). We follow a day in the life of a seventy-two-year-old revolutionary who looks back on a life of resistance. Her name will be familiar to anyone who has read “The Dispossessed”. This Hainish tale is set on Urras, 200 years before the events of that novel. Definitely worth picking up after you’ve read the novel.

Always game to read Le Guin, I picked up “Sur” because it won the Locus Award for Short Story; I knew nothing of the premise going in. Told as the recollection of a woman who traveled to Antarctica around 1909, it posits a secret history. These was definitely one of my favorite short stories I’ve read recently. Recommended.

I picked up “Robot Dreams” because it won the Locus Award. This is only the second story I’ve read of Asimov’s (I didn’t care for “Foundation”). This is an incredibly quick story about a woman whose experiment has led a robot to start having dreams. The story doesn’t require that you know the Three Laws of Robotics beforehand. A fun read.

Although I intend to read “Tales from Earthsea” at some point, I read “The Bones of the Earth” now because it won the 2002 Locus Award for Short Story. The story revolves around an elderly wizard on Gont, seemingly retired in the hills. It’s a good fantasy tale, with some nice points about notoriety at the end. It helps to know Earthsea beforehand, but doesn’t detract much to be missing that context.

“A Small Room in Koboldtown” won the 2008 Locus Award for Short Story. Will le Fey works for a haint alderman. As a solid, he provides a presence the alderman does not. When a constituent is accused of murder, they head to the scene to see what they can do. This is a fun, noir tale set in a city composed of all kinds of mythological creatures. Definitely recommended if you can get your hands on it.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“Pocket Full of Rain and Other Stories” collects some of Jason’s early work. Of his works, up to now I’ve only read “What I Did.” These stories mostly feature realistic humans, instead of the animal-headed characters he is more associated with now. The stories feel random, and none of them pulled me in. I think I only laughed a couple times. I failed to grasp the significance of different characters getting shot in the head. Not recommended, though I would consider reading more of his material.

“And to Think We Started as a Book Club...” collects a number of single-panel comics from “The New Yorker”. I’d seen a couple of them before, and I do like Tom Toro’s style and wit. I captured a few of the comics to share. Definitely worth checking out if you like this style of cartoon.

“Buff Soul” is a graphic memoir by Moa Romanova. She joined her friends of the band Shitkid on a drug and alcohol fueled visit to the U.S. in 2018, first visiting Los Angeles then on to South by Southwest in Austin. Members of The Melvins and Butthole Surfers provide them with housing along the way. They come to question what they want to do with their lives. The art style is distinctive, with shrunken heads atop hefty bodies that remind me of Botero sculptures. I found the story interesting, but I’m not sure who I’d recommend it to.

“Mothballs” reads like a memoir or family history, but is marked as fiction. As 19-year-old Ro moves into her grandmother’s house upon her death, she struggles with personal direction as well as the life of a grandmother she had become estranged from. The grandparents fled the rising fascist regime in Italy to settle in the outskirts of Buenos Aires. Why did her grandmother makes the decisions she made and act the way she did? This is a powerful story, and not an easy one, but it feels real. Definitely recommended.

“Scenes from Awajima” jumps between generations at an all-girl school for performance arts. It is a mix of school life and romance. There were times when the art style reminded me of characters from “Gunnerkrigg Court”. Kernels of the story could have been more interesting, but I think the structure fails to build the emotional tension that was there under the surface. Part of this could be because there are dramatic time jumps without any indication. Perhaps a Japanese person might have picked it up from visual clues, but I only pieced it together near the end. Not a series I will continue.

“Nocturnos” is an artistic, rambling meditation on life and place. Scenes transition from time period to time period as well as location to location, circling back here and there. Without engaging characters, however, it felt a bit more visually stunning than coherent. While quite fast, with little dialogue, I still would not recommend you spend time on this.

“Tender” explores the pain and pressure of modern expectations of marriage and motherhood. Set in Chicago, we see Carolanne imagine the perfect life ahead of her. But this is body horror. Luckily, I had forgotten reading the description of the book, since it literally gives away the ending. As the protagonist’s grasp on reality slips, so does the reader’s, which I think it done well. But I’m not sure who I could recommend this to.
