Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

I heard about “Autobiography of Cotton” when it was a (losing) choice for book club. The blurb talks about a cotton strike in the 1930s, and although the book begins with that, it is so much more. This is autofiction, an exploration of the author’s grandparents and parents and a history of the northeastern border of Mexico as it repeatedly transforms over the course of the 20th century. Aspects of the story like conversations are fictional, adding punch to the narrative. Besides a history of the region, it is also an exploration of identity. I’m glad I got this perspective of Mexico from a Mexican author, and I’d recommend this to any literary reader.

“The Works of Vermin” is my first DNF of the year. We are introduced to Guy and his world, and it is beautifully described. But, I felt like it was all world-building and little else. Three hours into the book, I still wasn’t sure why I was supposed to care about any of the characters yet. And although I figured the large “centipede” encounter was leading to the central plot conflict, I just couldn’t focus.

-- Short Fiction --

It takes a minute for the premise of “Kaiju Agonistes” to kick in. The core concept here is quite clever, and I enjoyed how the kaijū element played out in a lot of ways. I found the first two human conversation breaks rather annoying, though, which tested my desire to read on. And you could remove the lines that turn North Korea into a punching bag and improve the story. The critique of humanity and human governments were laugh-out-loud funny at times. Would recommend to Godzilla fans.

“The Apologists” seems like a police procedural, focused on Eve’s investigation into the brutal murder of a mother and child. But as the case moves along, it is clear that something isn’t quite that same as our world, even though it seems like contemporary London. The murder suspect has left not traces of biological material at the scene, but another substance that connects the murders with other unsolved cases. This is a well written murder mystery, that takes an unexpected sci-fi turn part-way through. The transition was a bit jarring, but does make sense at the end. Although I enjoyed the read, I didn’t find the speculative concept at the end particularly compelling.

“Pages from a Young Girl’s Journal” won the inaugural World Fantasy Award for Short Fiction. In October 1821, a girl and her family arrive in Ravenna, Italy as part of a long vacation. Told entirely through the journal entries of the titular young girl, you can tell something is off, and suspect it is supernatural. The quality writing pulls you along slowly. But it does take a predictable turn, and the story turns sour as you realize a male author is writing about pedophilia from the victim’s perspective, but presenting it as a “positive” thing. That protagonist’s age is never clear, so perhaps if you interpret her as an older teenager?

“Things You Learn as a Werewolf” is a super quick read, as a werewolf helps their partner following an assault. And the ending is perfect. Worth tracking down.

“Wire Mother” is a solid exploration of one consequence of true A.I. Cassie is a teenager raised by a human father and an A.I. mother. But she also has a disorder. This is classic sci-fi, a story that makes you think about the social consequences of shift in our society. Highly recommended.

“Magical Girl Antifa War Machine” imagines a group of four trans women who become magical girls, and then use their powers to begin tearing down the systems of oppression keeping us all down. It’s a quick and fun tale, mostly a power fantasy with a little sex thrown in.

-- Nonfiction --

“Abolish Rent” is written by two co-founders of the Los Angeles Tenant Union. It dives into the political economy of renting. “Rent steals the common labor of tenants, who create the communities where they live.” It looks at what tenant can do to start to overturn this system. As with all real change, the first step is to build a community that can be capable of standing together for a common goal. Included are real examples from struggles the Tenant Union has been involved in, several of which I remember from the news. A top-notch book of only 150 pages, recommended even if you aren’t a renter anymore.

In “We Survived the Night”, NoiseCat intermingles coyote stories in with his personal and family history, alongside journalistic research he’s done with different tribes through the U.S. and Canada. We see the direct and real effects of the residential schools. The book also tackles indigenous identity, as the author was primarily raised by his non-Indian (Jewish) mother, but she went to great lengths to ensure that he remained connected to his father’s culture and family. There was one powerful phrase late in the book that really stood out to me: “Even what I know about love is self-taught.” A good read on the topic if you favor a more memoir/journalistic style (versus, say, academic).

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

I liked the first volume of “A Witch’s Life in Mongol” enough to give the latest English-translated volume a try. This takes place several years after the first volume, with Fatima a slave to a wife of one of Genghis’ sons. We cover the transition of power following the Khan’s death, and the tension among the families. Like the first volume, there’s a lot of historical information in here that feels well researched. But also like the first volume, the personalities and Fatima’s motivations feel a bit unrealistic. I don’t think I’ll continue the series now.

I’ve already watched the anime, but thought I would check out the original manga for “Frieren: Beyond Journey’s End”. The party of heroes returns from their ten-year quest to defeat the demon king. Frieren, the elf mage, then sets off on her hobby of collecting obscure spells. But human lives are much shorter, and fifty years later when they reunite to watch a meteor shower, the two humans of the party are elderly. The original title includes the word 葬送, which roughly means seeing or sending off the dead. The anime adheres to the manga quite closely, and this is one of my favorites, so I plan to catch up with what’s available.

In “After the Storm”, a weekend visit with her parents leaves Hélène trapped in their parents house when a rainstorm closes off the roads. As the house floods, we learn why she is so cagey with her parents. This is the story of an adult woman (in her 40s) dealing with domestic abuse. I felt the story was a little too on-the-nose, perhaps because her confession of the abuse felt like it came out too freely after having been hidden for so long. I am also not a fan of the art style, though it doesn’t detract from the tale.

“The Past Is a Grotesque Animal” is somewhere between a short story collection and an artist’s scrapbook. The author is trans, and it seems like the artwork spans across their transition. Some of the stories in the collection pack a little punch, and some gave me a chuckle. But some of the art felt more random. Not a horrible collection, I also don’t know that I’d recommend it to anyone, either.

“YON 1” is laid out like a manga, reading right to left, but is written by a American-French artist. We are in a school for girls with disciplinary issues, with one girl (Margot from the cover) keeping herself aside from others. Then an event happens, with an evacuation alarm and small balls falling from the sky, and we learn that this is something more dystopian than slice of life. The mystery here is curious, but there’s also a nasty dog-eat-dog vibe to the girls that doesn’t appeal to my interest. This is the first volume in a longer story, but I am not intrigued enough to learn the mystery to continue on.

“Final Face-off” finishes a trilogy of graphic novels. This book is focused on Tyler, whose D&D character and imaginary friend, Sunny, is a strong opposite to his own personality. Tyler is dealing with a bullying neighbor and classmate, a visiting cousin who takes over his space, and a newly discovered crush that he feels he should keep hidden. We also wrap up the D&D campaign the party has been on since the first book. This is an excellent conclusion to the series, recommended for middle grade readers and D&D fans alike.
