Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

I’ve been eagerly awaiting “To Ride a Rising Storm” since I finished the first book in the series. And now I have to wait for the third book! Arriving home after her first year at Kuiper’s Academy, Anequs is greeted by troops stationed on her home island. After the events of the first book, politics are heating up long before she starts her second year. We are introduced to some new characters with different backgrounds as the school year begins. I will warn you now, this one ends with a cliffhanger.

I heard about “Seascraper” when it was longlisted for the Booker in 2025, and it the fourth of them I have read now. Around 1962 (the book never explicitly says), Thomas is 20 and working collecting shrimp along the English coast. He still uses a horse and cart, though shrimpers elsewhere have mechanized. His income keeps his mother and him afloat, but just barely. His real passion is music. Then Edgar Acheson enters their life. This is a beautifully descriptive book, giving the reader a strong sense of Thomas’ life, both inner and outer. I liked this a lot, and recommend the audiobook, as the author reads and performs Thomas’ songs.

I’ve put off “Dawn” until I was sure I could work through the entire Xenogenesis trilogy. Lilith awakes in a room, isolated with only a voice which occasionally speaks to her, asks questions, and answers none. She is a survivor of a war on Earth that wiped out most of humanity. She had lost her husband and son before the war in a car crash. What do her captors want with her? Octavia E. Butler is the GOAT, and this book does not disappoint. It’s a novel of survival, but also a question about what is humanity. Looking forward to the next book.

The title alone of “The Girl That My Mother Is Leaving Me For” should prompt you to read this short story. In a near future dystopia, our narrator was hired to bear the clone of a corporate leader. But after one too many miscarriages, she is going to be replaced by a younger women who is now pregnant. Still the adopted daughter of the CEO until the new woman officially takes her place, she is not sure what will happen to her afterward. A great tale that I could see making the shortlist for sci-fi awards this year.

“Creation” won the World Fantasy Award for Short Fiction in 2003. A boy has run of the woods behind his house and an active imagination. After learning in Sunday School of how Adam was created, he is inspired to capture his father’s breath and see if it will bring life to a man he creates of natural material. This coming of age story falls into the realm of plausible deniability. It does a good job of getting us into the mind of the boy, with the wonder and fear and confusion of his age.

In “The Orchard Village Catalog”, our narrator is sharing an apartment with roommates, but longs for a place of his own. Then the Orchard Village Catalog appears, offering affordable housing near work, seemingly for employees. But the selection process proves more difficult than it ought to be. This tale failed to grab me, though there was a dystopian kernel here that seemed promising.

-- Nonfiction --

I’d heard about “Caliban and the Witch” via booktube, probably Sunny or Willow, and it sounded right up my alley. This is an academic work that explores the role the oppression of women played in capital accumulation at the birth of capitalism. We see the standard of living of all Europeans, but particularly of women, fall with the rise of capitalism, to not begin to rise for nearly four hundred years. We see the shift in the culture, with accusations of witchcraft against women as a way to enforce patriarchy, and eventually take childbirth out of the hands of women because they “cannot be trusted”. This book is very academic and dry in parts, so be prepared for that. Also, I don’t recommend the printed book. It uses a small print with 85–90 characters per line, which alone tired me out. I’d choose an ebook instead.

The “Simple Sabotage Field Manual” was put out during WWII to guide the training of citizen saboteurs against the Germans. The book contains a lot of dated details, but the principles hold. The last part of the text is the most powerful, pointing out the psychological tactics used to obstruct and sabotage, techniques you will see at any public meeting here in the U.S. as opponents of progressive policies use these tried and true methods. A lot of the concepts here are not new, but are collected in a quick read that shouldn’t even take an hour to breeze through.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

I’d heard of Kahlil Gibran, but this graphic adaptation of “The Prophet” is my first time reading his work. Released on the 100th anniversary of the original publication, the text is mildly abridged, but otherwise unaltered. The narrator expounds on a variety of topics as he prepares to leave the community he has lived in for twelve years. The poetry is excellent, and the added graphics add to the experience. There are many quotable and memorable parts. It’s easy to see why this is considered a classic. There are few overtly religious parts, but they don’t come across as sectarian. Definitely recommended if you have a taste for philosophical poetry.

“Virgile” is a serious comic about euthanasia. Formerly a pro basketball player in Belgium, Virgile is divorced and living alone when he has an accident that leaves him quadriplegic. His spirits are high when interacting with his children, grandchildren, and friends, but it isn’t a life he wishes to continue. It is told through many flashbacks. The discussion of euthanasia is not particularly deep, but the story is engaging and sympathetic. I’m not sure I’d recommend this, but it’s not bad.

“My Words, A Long Way Off” is the story of Claire, who has aphasia after a stroke. She has been teaching and working as a translator in Madrid, but this is no small change for the kind of work she does. A visit to Galicia to help clean up an oil spill leads to friendships with others who have made major career changes. This story is well told, and the ocean imagery drew me in. I found this quite moving. One of the best graphic novels I’ve read this year, for the positive introspection is portrays.
