Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

I heard about “The Son of Man” through Dua’s Monthly Read for February 2026. When a nine year old’s father returns after a six year absence, they relocate with the mother to a remote cabin in the Pyrenees mountains. Having only memories of his mother, the boy must learn who his father is, as he navigates a new relationship and a new environment. This is a slow burn that builds in intensity. You can see that from the get-go. This is not a happy book, but I’d recommend it to anyone looking for a serious exploration of inter-generational violence.

“The True True Story of Raja the Gullible (and His Mother)” bounces around in time to tell the story of Raja, a gay man in Beirut. We cover everything from childhood up to the present day. Because of the civil war, the bombings by Israel, and the explosion in 2020, we get insights into a hefty chunk of modern Lebanese history. But alongside the levity is a sense of humor that had be chuckling out loud a number of times, particularly in the banter between Raja and his mother. I was expecting a good book, since this did win the National Book Award in 2025, but enjoyed the reading experience much more than expected. Recommended.

“Adulthood Rites” is book two in the Xenogenesis or Lilith’s Brood series. Fifty years after the events of “Dawn”, Lilith’s son Akin looks human, but is a human-alien hybrid. Early childhood events disrupt his development, sending him on a lifelong journey to learn from the Resistors, those humans who refuse contact with the alien Oankali. I liked this even more than “Dawn”. There are several philosophical concepts tackled with no clear answers. It was also in this book that I saw clearly a slavery analogy. A must-read, and this trilogy soars by.

“Imago” finishes the Xenogenesis series. It takes place a century after the first book, but to say more is a spoiler for the earlier books. A strong conclusion to the trilogy, still asking questions about humanity without pushing a definite answer. With that, I now only have four of the Patternist books to read to complete all of Butler’s works.

“The Truth About Owls” is a Locus Award winning short story, following a young Lebanese-Scottish woman who finds solace in an Owl Center outside Glasgow. Treated as an outsider, she takes up Welsh as she learns about owls. Each section is prefaced with a fact or joke about owls. The best one: “A group of owls is called a Parliament. Owls are bad luck.” Sitting with the story, I can see why some people might like it a lot. But for me, it was just OK.

-- Nonfiction --

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“The Magnificent Adventure” is translated from the 1978–79 comic from Italy. A young man drops everything to experience an adventure, which takes him from Italy to South America and back. The premise is meant to be absurd, offering a sort of critique of society and adventure tales. For me it fell flat, and the commentary is not particularly biting. Also, the artist went on to gain fame for his erotica, and it shows here. Besides gratuitously nude women, the tale also includes a rape scene that passes without serious attention, making the protagonist even more disgusting that he already was. Not recommended.

“Captive” is a nonfiction graphic novel focused on one boy whose records have come to light. It is an honest portrayal of the brutality of the juvenile detention system that arose in the late 1800s in France (and elsewhere). It’s not a happy tale, but I thought it did a good job of portraying the circumstances. Worth checking out if the subject matter sounds interesting.

“Alabaster: Wolves” is a sequel to a book I haven’t read, but you don’t feel like you are missing any details by starting here. I picked this one up because I saw it tagged for werewolves. Dancy Flammarion is a young monster slayer, guided by a multi-headed angel. Her first encounter with a werewolf exposes a bigger problem in the town. I did not find the characters or story particularly compelling. I’m still not sure what to make of the callback to the Civil War. Just OK.

I saw “Love Bullet” mentioned in a top ten list of manga from the past decade. The art was compelling, and sometimes these screwball concepts pay off. Modern-day cupids don’t shoot potential lovers with arrows anymore, they are packing heat. And when you make a successful match, it increases your karma, which can lead to the potential to come back to life. The start of this was a little too over-the-top for me, and I thought about dropping it. But then I got pulled in, and the latter half of the volume really caught me. I’ll definitely check out volume two when I get a chance.

I read two volumes of “Macanudo” this week. Liniers is a cartoonist from Argentina. These are quick strips, somewhere between “Calvin and Hobbes” and “Mutts” in style and tone. There is a rotating cast of characters, two of whom are young children with wild imaginations and a love of reading. Several of these strips are laugh-out-loud funny. Many of the strips are endearing. Definitely recommended, especially if you feel a need for something lighthearted that will bring out the kid in you.

Issue twelve of “The Savage Sword of Conan” has three solid stories of three different characters. The Conan story has him joining with a small party that includes a wizard. The prose story of Bran Mak Morn is a dramatic adventure tale pitting the Pict king against a Roman messenger. And the El Borak tale combines an interesting subdued art style with a mythical encounter.
