Weekly Reading Wrap-up

-- Fiction --

“The Hounding” is set during a heat wave in an 18th century village in Oxfordshire. A rumor spreads that the five Mansfield girls are turning into dogs. Their parents have passed, as has their grandmother recently, leaving them under the guardianship of a grandfather who is losing his sight. We go between different perspectives, some sympathetic and some not, though all of them quite believable. This is a quick book, on the shorter end, and perfectly paced. I definitely recommend this one.

“Missing Helen” is a short story told in a second-person perspective. Helen finds out that her ex-husband is getting married ... to her clone. Young Helen grew up with abusive parents, and selling her stem cells to a cloning agency was her best bet for getting an education. I quite enjoyed how this story played out. I’m pretty sure this will be a Hugo nomination from me. It is available online from Clarkesworld. https://clarkesworldmagazine.com/tashiro_07_25/

-- Nonfiction --

“Sorting Out the Postal Strike” is a pamphlet put out by Joe Jacobs, a postal worker, at the end of the 1971 U.K. postal workers strike. It analyzes the course of the strike, along with the failures of leadership and potential steps forward for postal workers. The situation he describes is still relevant to this day, as many unions are held down by leadership eager to work with the bosses. The solutions are just as relevant, advocating for the need for workers to organize democratically. I found this online, and would recommend it to everyone interested in labor and organizing.

MLK Day reminded me that I hadn’t read “Letter from Birmingham Jail” in quite a while, so thought it was time for a re-read. Written in 1963, he addresses the fellow ministers and clergyman with their critiques of the fight for civil rights. He bats aside accusations of being an “outside agitator”. He highlights the role that the white moderate plays in deferring justice. A must-read.

Never again can we afford to live with the narrow, provincial “outside agitator” idea. Anyone who lives inside the United States can never be considered an outsider anywhere within its bounds.

Lamentably, it is an historical fact that privileged groups seldom give up their privileges voluntarily. Individuals may see the moral light and voluntarily give up their unjust posture; but, as Reinhold Niebuhr has reminded us, groups tend to be more immoral than individuals.

There comes a time when the cup of endurance runs over, and men are no longer willing to be plunged into the abyss of despair.

I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negro’s great stumbling block in his stride toward freedom is not the White Citizen’s Counciler or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate, who is more devoted to “order” than to justice; who prefers a negative peace which is the absence of tension to a positive peace which is the presence of justice; who constantly says: “I agree with you in the goal you seek, but I cannot agree with your methods of direct action”; who paternalistically believes he can set the timetable for another man’s freedom; who lives by a mythical concept of time and who constantly advises the Negro to wait for a “more convenient season.”

I had read excerpts from “My Soul Is Rested”, but had never sat down and read through the whole book. It’s an oral history of the civil rights movement, collecting interviews in 1974–1976 from the people who lived through the struggles of the ’50s and ’60s. It includes many famous people, like Rosa Parks and Fred Shuttlesworth, but also lesser know activists. There are also candid interviews with people who fought for the status quo, who continue to believe that segregation was a good thing. This is a must-read for everyone, to gain a deep understanding of the violence and effort that it took to break down segregation.

“Who Gets to Be Indian?” is an academic but highly approachable work digging into the questions around Indian identity. It explores the pretendian phenomenon, delving most deeply into Sacheen Littlefeather, whose claims of Apache heritage were not widely debunked until after her death a few years ago. It explores the roots of such claims in Hollywood. It also digs deeply into what it means to be Indian, with a strong assertion that Native identity is not a racial identity, a trap created by the white power structure. We see the toxic effect capitalism has had on all of this, from teaching Indians to be selfish up to casino capitalism. If this subject interests you at all, I definitely recommend.

-- Graphic Novels and Manga --

“The Fox’s Tale” is set in an animorphic world where young people all get a calling to do their “FolkLore”. For our main character, the child of a fox and a wolf, his journey begins when a magic key appears. He then journeys off to the city to apprentice with his grandfather. I would say this story is most appropriate for a late elementary aged child. The tale is fun, with highly detailed art that for some reason put me in the mind of Richard Scarry. Other than the magic key and talking animals, the rest of the world is portrayed realistically. It is part of a series, though this may be the first one translated from the French.

“The Fisherman and the Salamander” starts the tale of a young orphaned fisherman, who dresses like a Chinese child. He regularly makes the proper offerings to the Fish King, but then a salamander takes the offering. The Fish King is offended, but sets the salamander a task to redeem themself. This comic is targeted toward a younger audience, maybe 4th or 5th graders. I liked the art, and the tale kept a decent pace. This is the first volume of the fantastical tale, but I won’t be continuing on.

“I Am Their Silence” is told as the recollection of our main character, Eva, as she is in a therapy session. Eva is a psychiatrist, too, at risk of losing her license. A week earlier, she agreed to attend as the guest of a patient, Penelope, to hear the reading of Penelope’s grandmother’s will. The wealthy family of wine growers is quite eccentric, and when one of them turns up dead, Eva cannot help but play sleuth, despite being warned off by the police. It was an enjoyable mystery which plays out rather nicely, with one exception that broke believability (the autopsy). I liked the art, though some of it is fan service but not too extreme. I would pick up the artist again if I came across another translation.
